FROM DISH HERE COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON HERE COMES MY SONG
HERE COMES FROM WATSON BECAUSE
WE'RE A DENHA.
HERE COMES MARKAZI ONE HERE
MAYOR TAYLOR HERE FOR IHR HERE
THAT'S WHERE ATMAN HERE COMES
FROM BRIGS HERE COMES KORNEL
HERE WE HAVE A QUORUM MAY HAVE
A MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
AGENDA MOVE BY COUNCILOR FOR
OUR SECOND BY COUNCILOR ACKMANN
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA
CASIMIRA DENHA THANK YOU MAYOR.
I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE TO AMEND
THE AGENDA TO ADD THE PROPOSED
ITEM RESOLUTION TO REVISE
PREVIOUS APPROVAL OF ISSUANCE
OF NEW CLASS C QUARTEL LIQUOR
LICENSE IN THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR TO CHILI'S RESTAURANT IN
KOREA.
WHERE WOULD WHERE WOULD THAT BE
TO GO ABOUT THE END OF NEW
BUSINESS C FIVE YES IT'S BEEN
RECOMMENDED OVER HERE AT HAS A
DC YEAH DC
IN ANTICIPATION
PERHAPS OF IT BEING SHORT MAYBE
WE'LL DC ZERO OK IS THERE A
SECOND TO THAT SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION OF THE AMENDMENT.
I CAN JUST BRIEFLY EXPLAIN THIS
IS THAT THIS IS A PREVIOUS
RECOMMENDATION THAT WE HAVE
ALREADY APPROVED CHANGES HAD TO
COME BACK TO THE LIQUOR LICENSE
REVIEW COMMISSION BECAUSE
THEY'RE ADDRESSES ACTUALLY AT
TECHNICALLY TWO ADDRESSES AND
THE APPLICATION ONLY INCLUDED
ONE AND SO THE STATE HAS THEM
ON HOLD FOR THAT REASON.
THERE ARE A FEW OTHER THINGS
THAT THEY'RE WORKING TO MODIFY
BUT WE WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT
YOU COULD GET THIS THROUGH
QUICKLY SO THAT IF EVERYTHING
ELSE FALLS INTO PLACE IN THE
NEXT TWO WEEKS THEY'RE NOT
WAITING ON US TO REAPPROVED
SOMETHING WE'VE ALREADY
APPROVED.
>> EXCELLENT.
>> THE DISCUSSION THE AMENDMENT
ON FAVOR WELL I'M SORRY SORRY.
>> IT'S ALSO NOTABLE THAT
LIQUOR LICENSE COMMISSION MET
ON FRIDAY THIS WEEK WHICH FELL
AFTER THE SUBMISSION DEADLINE
FOR APPOINTMENT FOR ORDINANCE
ER RESOLUTION THANK YOU ARE ALL
IN FAVOR OF THE AMENDMENT
PROPOSED.
>> IT IS APPROVED FOR THE
DISCUSSION OF AGENDA AS AMENDED
IN FAVOR POSED THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR?
THANK YOU.
WE DO HAVE CHAIR CARTER FROM
THE INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY
POLICE OVERSIGHT COMMISSION FOR
AN UPDATE.
CHAIR CARTER, YOU HAVE THE
THANK YOU MR MAYOR.
GOOD EVENING MAYOR COUNCIL.
MR CITY ADMINISTRATOR AND MADAM
CLERK, WE ARE MEETING WE'RE
BACK TO MEETING.
AS I MENTIONED BEFORE WE WE DID
MEET JULY AND
AUGUST.
WE ARE CONTINUING TO HANDLE THE
COMPLAINT REVIEW.
WE ARE MEETING WITH THE POLICE
CHIEF AND HE'S BEEN VERY OPEN
AND RECEPTIVE TO MEET WITH US
AND WE'RE VERY HAPPY ABOUT THAT
AND WE ARE REVIEWING SOME
SPECIFIC POLICIES IN LIGHT
OF VARIOUS THINGS THAT ARE
GOING ON IN THE CITY AT THIS
TIME.
I WANTED TO LET YOU KNOW ABOUT
NACOLE WHICH IS THE NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION FOR CIVILIAN
OVERSIGHT OF LAW ENFORCEMENT.
IT IS A NATIONAL ORGANIZATION.
THERE ARE EVERY ONCE AT A
MEMBER BUT IT'S MY
UNDERSTANDING THAT PRESENTLY
THERE ARE ABOUT TWO HUNDRED AND
FIFTY DIFFERENT OVERSIGHT
BODIES ACROSS THE COUNTRY IN
NACOLE IS THERE THERE NATIONAL
ORGANIZATION SOME OF US ARE
ATTENDING THE CONFERENCE WHICH
WILL BE AS A MATTER OF FACT
NEXT WEEK WILL BE ATTENDING
THAT.
I HAVE ASKED THAT THE
COMMISSION TAKE A LOOK AT THE
NACOLE CODE OF ETHICS AND THAT
WE APPROVE IT AT OUR NEXT
MEETING AND I WANT TO LET YOU
KNOW JUST A FEW THINGS ABOUT
THE NACOLE CALL CODE OF ETHICS
CIVILIAN OVERSIGHT
PRACTITIONERS HAVE A UNIQUE
ROLE AS PUBLIC SERVANTS
OVERSEEING LAW ENFORCEMENT
AGENCIES AND SO THIS CODE OF
ETHICS INCLUDES PERSONAL
INTEGRITY, INDEPENDENT AND
THOROUGH OVERSIGHT,
TRANSPARENCY AND
CONFIDENTIALITY, RESPECTFUL AND
AND BIASED TREATMENT
OF EVERYONE THAT WE DEAL WITH
OUTREACH AND RELATIONSHIPS WITH
STAKEHOLDERS, AGENCY SELF
EXAMINATION AND COMMITMENT TO
POLICY REVIEW PROFESSIONAL
EXCELLENCE AND PRIMARY
OBLIGATION TO THE COMMUNITY.
THESE ARE THE PILLARS OF THE
NACOLE CODE OF ETHICS AND WE'RE
HOPING TO APPROVE THAT AT OUR
NEXT MEETING AND JOIN CITIZENS
LIKE BURKLEY AND BOYSIE IDAHO
AND AND CHARLOTTESVILLE.
CINCINNATI, CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA
ALL ACROSS THE COUNTRY
COMMISSIONS AS THAT'S OURS WHO
HAVE SIGNED ON TO THIS CODE OF
ETHICS AND WE BELIEVE THAT IT'S
APPROPRIATE AND PROPER TO JOIN
THEM.
SO THAT'S WHAT'S NEW.
>> IF THERE ARE ANY OTHER QUICK
ANY QUESTIONS AT ALL THEN THANK
YOU AND GOOD EVENING.
THANK YOU.
>> WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVE TIME PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVE TIME IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
AT PUBLIC COMMENT AND RESERVE
TIME ONE NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED
UP IN ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR
CITY CLERK SPEAKERS IN ALL
INSTANCES WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN
THIRTY SECONDS ARE REMAINING
AND WHEN YOUR TIME'S EXPIRED
WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED
PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
ELIZABETH HUNTER
SINCE TWO
THOUSAND NINE THE COUNTY
SHERIFF'S BUDGET IS UP EIGHTY
FIVE PERCENT.
THE NUMBER OF DEPUTIES IS DOWN
THIRTY EIGHT PERCENT FOR YOU
REVEALED THAT IN TWENTY
SEVENTEEN THE YEAR OF PUBLIC
SAFETY AND COMMUNITY MENTAL
HEALTH PRESERVATION KNOWLEDGE
PASSED CMH EMPLOYED FORTY THREE
MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
INCLUDING FIVE PSYCHIATRISTS
SIX YEARS AND EIGHTEEN MILLION
DOLLARS IN COLLEGE FUNDS LATER
CMH STILL EMPLOYS FORTY THREE
MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONALS AND
FIVE PSYCHIATRISTS.
YET THE SALARIES OF NON
CLINICAL ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
HAVE SOARED.
LOOK AT THE CULTURE OF COUNTY
OVERSPENDING, CORRUPTION AND
ETHICAL MISCONDUCT.
DO YOU WANT TO THROW THEM MORE
MONEY TO BE BLUNT, MANY OF THEM
NEED TO BE LET GO BEFORE WE
DISCUSS MORE MONEY FOR THE
COUNTY.
IT WILL ONLY GO TO HIGHER
SALARIES FOR MANAGEMENT.
THIS IS EXACTLY WHAT ACTUALLY
HAPPENED WITH THE ORIGINAL
MENTAL HEALTH MILLAGE INCREASE
ON A TOTALLY DIFFERENT TOPIC
MONTHS AGO A CITY COUNCIL
MEMBER SITTING HERE TODAY
WALKED BY OUR DOWNTOWN ANTI-WAR
PROTEST.
SHE BURST INTO UPROARIOUS
LAUGHTER EVEN STOPPING HER FOOT
FOR EMPHASIS.
HER CONTEMPT FOR US WAS OBVIOUS
AND HER ACTIONS SOMEWHAT
CARTOONISH 60 PERCENT OF OUR
FEDERAL TAXES GO TO BOMBING
COUNTRIES CARRYING OUT MASS
MURDER AND DESTROYING
INFRASTRUCTURE AND SOCIETIES
AND OUR COALITION AGAINST WAR
HAS PROTESTED US MILITARY
AGGRESSION SINCE NINETEEN SIXTY
FOUR.
>> MANY OFFICIALS HAVE WALKED
BY ALWAYS RESPECTFULLY AND WITH
AT LEAST A PRETENSE
OF AGREEMENT WITH US A FEW EVEN
STOPPING TO DISCUSS ISSUES.
THE DISRESPECT FROM THIS
REPRESENTATIVE WAS SHOCKING AS
SHE MADE FUN OF OUR COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT.
SHOULDN'T THAT BE ENCOURAGED
ENGAGEMENT THAT IS WE HOPE THAT
SHE WASN'T LAUGHING AT THE
COUNTLESS CHILDREN KILLED IN
PALESTINE OR THE ISRAELI US AND
NATO WAR CRIMES AND TORTURE.
WE NOTED HER ACTIONS WERE
EMBLEMATIC OF COUNCILS
SOMETIMES OUTRIGHT DISDAIN FOR
RESIDENTS CHIDING IN PUBLIC
COMMENTS, SPEAKERS REPRIMANDING
RESIDENTS ATTACKING CITIZEN
ACTIVISTS ON SOCIAL MEDIA OR
OUT IN THE COMMUNITY.
BUT WHAT THE PUBLIC WANTS FROM
OFFICIALS OUR COOPERATION,
RESPECT AND KINDNESS IF SHE WAS
LAUGHING ONLY AT ME IT'S STILL
REPREHENSIBLE FROM AN OFFICIAL
BUT THE PROTESTERS PRESENT THAT
DAY WE'RE LEFT WITH THE
IMPRESSION THAT HER ATTEMPT AT
HUMILIATION WAS FOR ALL OF US.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DAN KELLY
,
MAYOR, I BELIEVE MR. KELLY IS
JOINING US ON ZOOME MR. KELLY,
PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN FOUR TO
SIX STAR SIX ON MUTE YOUR PHONE
WITH GOOD EVENING MAYOR COUNCIL
MEMBER OF THE CITY MANAGER MANY
OF THEM KELLY.
I'M THE DIRECTOR OF THE STATION
WATCH AMI WE OPERATE WITH A
TURNER OUT OF DOWNTOWN NO, ON
BEHALF OF THE SOCCER
ASSOCIATION I WOULD VOTE FOR
SUPPORT FOR THE COMPLETION
OF THE COUNTY YOU PRESENTED
THIS EVENING AT THE MEETING
AGENDA ITEM VETO YOU DASH TO
THE SHELTER ASSOCIATION
SUPPORTS THE APPLICATION OF THE
REBATE FUNDING FOR SUPPORT
OF SERVICE HOUSING BECAUSE THE
CONTINUING THAT CREDIT FOR
MAINTAINING HIGH QUALITY,
AFFORDABLE AND SUPPORTIVE
HOUSING WITHOUT BEING FINED
OVER 650 HOUSEHOLDS DID NOT
RECEIVE THE CRITICAL SUPPORT
SERVICES DETERMINED TO MAINTAIN
THEIR HOUSING AND PRIDE IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
THESE EFFORTS ARE ESPECIALLY
CRITICAL NOW THAT WE SEE A
CRITICAL COMMUNITY FROM THE
OVER ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY
PEOPLE WAITING FOR A CHILD TO
BED AT THE SHELTER SITUATION
SUPPORT PROVIDING MORE PEOPLE
YOU NEED THE COMMUNITY TO GIVE
THEM MUCH NEEDED SUPPORT FOR
THE VARIETY OF SERVICES
INCLUDING USING A BED.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY TO TO WITH SUPPORT
THE RESOLUTION AND OUR SUPPORT.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS SCOTT ELLIS
.
GOOD EVENING, MR. MAYOR.
AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
MY NAME IS SCOTT ELLIS AND I AM
A RESIDENT OF WARD FOUR AND
TONIGHT I AM HERE SPEAKING AS A
STAFF MEMBER OF AVALON HOUSING
WHICH IS A LOCAL NONPROFIT HERE
IN OUR COMMUNITY.
IT CREATES AFFORDABLE HOUSING
AND PROVIDES WRAPAROUND SUPPORT
SERVICES TO OUR NEIGHBORS
EXITING HOMELESSNESS DATA FROM
OUR COUNTY'S MOST RECENT POINT
IN TIME COUNT SHOWS THAT TOTAL
HOMELESSNESS HAS INCREASED HERE
IN WASHINGTON COUNTY BY TWENTY
PERCENT SINCE TWENTY TWENTY AND
CHRONIC HOMELESSNESS WHICH IS
WHEN FOLKS HAVE EXPERIENCED
HOMELESSNESS FOR AT LEAST ONE
YEAR OR REPEATEDLY WHILE
STRUGGLING WITH A DISABLING
CONDITION THAT HAS INCREASED BY
ALMOST 50 PERCENT SINCE TWENTY
TWENTY.
THIS IS PART OF THE REASON WHY
THE REBATE FUNDING FROM THE
PUBLIC SAFETY AND MENTAL HEALTH
MESSAGE A PORTION OF WHICH IS
CURRENTLY BEING USED FOR
SUPPORTIVE HOUSING SERVICES IS
SO VITAL THIS FUNDING SUPPORTS
AVALON MANAGERS WHO HELP
CLIENTS LIVING IN ANN ARBOR
HOUSING COMMISSION PROPERTIES
OVERCOME SERIOUS CONDITIONS
THAT JEOPARDIZE THEIR HEALTH
AND WELL-BEING AND OFTEN THEIR
HOUSING.
THESE WRAPAROUND SERVICES ARE
KEY TO HELPING PEOPLE STAY
HOUSED ONCE AN AFFORDABLE HOME
OPENS UP TO THEM.
WITHOUT THIS FUNDING, MANY MORE
OF OUR NEIGHBORS WOULD BE AT
RISK OF LOSING THEIR HOUSING.
MAINTAINING THIS FUNDING GOING
FORWARD IS VITAL SINCE AVALON
IN THE HOUSING COMMISSION ARE
RESPONDING TO OUR HOMELESSNESS
CRISIS BY CREATING AND BUILDING
SEVERAL HUNDRED UNITS
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING OVER THE
NEXT FEW YEARS OUR COMMUNITY
WILL NEED TO INCREASE THESE
TYPES OF SUPPORTIVE SERVICES
GOING FORWARD TO ENSURE THAT
THE TRANSITION FOR THOSE FUTURE
TENANT TENANTS INTO STABLE
HOUSING IS SUCCESSFUL.
THANK YOU ALL FOR YOUR
COMMITMENT TO MORE SUPPORTIVE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING HERE IN ANN
ARBOR.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS AARON
COOPER.
GOOD EVENING, MAYOR, COUNCIL
ADMINISTRATOR AND MADAM CLERK.
MY NAME IS AARON COOPER AND I
SERVE AS THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
FOR AVALON HOUSING FIRST I JUST
WANT TO THANK YOU, MAYOR
AND
THE COUNCIL FOR BRINGING SUCH
AN IMPORTANT RESOLUTION TO THE
FLOOR TODAY REGARDING THE CITY
MILEAGE REBATE THIS IS A CITY
SUPPORT AND DEDICATION TO
ENSURING OUR MOST VULNERABLE
CITIZENS RECEIVED AID THAT THEY
NEED TO MAINTAIN HOUSING AND
RECEIVE THE NECESSARY SERVICES
TO LIVE EQUITABLY AND OUR
COMMUNITY I'VE WORKED
PERSONALLY IN FOUR DIFFERENT
COMMUNITIES BEFORE COMING TO
ANN ARBOR AND THIS IS THE FIRST
TIME THAT I'VE SEEN SUCH A
RESOLUTION FOR SUPPORT
OF SERVICES AND HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT.
SO I JUST COMMEND YOU ALL FOR
YOUR DEDICATION TO THIS
COMMUNITY DEDICATING 40 PERCENT
OF THE MILLERS TO SUPPORTIVE
HOUSING SERVICES IS A HUGELY
SIGNIFICANT CONTRIBUTION TO THE
WELL-BEING OF THE PEOPLE LIVING
IN OUR COMMUNITY AND IN THE
HOUSING COMMISSION PROPERTIES
AT AVALON WE PARTNER WITH THE
HOUSING COMMISSION TO PROVIDE
DEDICATED STAFFING AND SERVICES
TO NEARLY TWO HUNDRED
INDIVIDUALS AND FAMILIES IN
NINE DIFFERENT HOUSING
COMMISSION PROPERTIES.
>> THESE SERVICES CAN INCLUDE
FOOD ASSISTANCE TO FOOD
PANTRIES THAT WE MANAGE MENTAL
HEALTH SUPPORT, MEDICAL CARE
COORDINATION, COMMUNITY AND
SOCIAL PROGRAMING, EVICTION
PREVENTION PROGRAMING AND
PROBABLY THE MOST IMPORTANT IS
THE 24/7 STAFFING 24 HOURS A
DAY, SEVEN DAYS A WEEK STAFFING
THAT ALLOWS FOR THE DIVERSION
OF RESOURCES FROM CITY PUBLIC
SAFETY SERVICES LIKE USAGE
OF POLICE, FIRE AND RESCUE AND
EMERGENCY ROOM VISITS.
IF THE CURRENT TREND
OF INCREASING HOUSING COSTS
CONTINUES AS WE EXPECT THE NEED
FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES WILL ONLY
GROW, WE AT AVALON REMAIN
COMMITTED TO WORKING WITH OUR
PARTNERS IN THE CITY TO ASSURE
THIS CITY IS A PLACE FOR ALL
REGARDLESS OF THEIR SOCIO
ECONOMIC STATUS.
THEREFORE WE URGE COUNCIL TO
CONTINUE THE ALLOCATIONS AS
STATED IN THE RESOLUTION AND WE
JUST APPRECIATE YOUR SUPPORT.
THANK THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DAVID
CARSIA
.
>> GOOD EVENING BOARD MEMBERS.
MY NAME IS DAVID GARCIA AND ON
BEHALF OF OZONE HOUSE I WOULD
LIKE TO FORMALLY VOICE OUR
SUPPORT FOR THE COUNTY MILITARY
BUDGET RESOLUTION OZONE
SUPPORTS THE ALLOCATION OF THE
MILITARY FUNDING TOWARDS
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES AND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
THIS ANNUAL INVESTMENT IS
CRITICAL TO MAINTAINING HIGH
QUALITY, AFFORDABLE AND
PERMANENT SUPPORTIVE HOUSING IN
WASHINGTON COUNTY.
IN A FEW DAYS I WILL HAVE THEIR
NOTES ON HOW THIS CASE MANAGER
FOR THREE YEARS I'VE WORKED
WITH VARIOUS YOUNG PEOPLE THAT
HAVE SIGNIFICANTLY BENEFITED
FROM THE COLLABORATIVE CASE
MANAGEMENT SERVICES OF OZONE
AVALON HOUSING AND THE
ANNENBERG HOUSING COMMISSION.
OUR OBJECTIVE IS TO HELP
INDIVIDUALS BECOME EMPOWERED
AND GAIN THE RIGHT SKILLS TO
KEEP THEIR HOUSING.
OFTENTIMES SOME OF THE YOUNG
PEOPLE IN OUR COMMUNITY HAVE
EXPERIENCED MULTIPLE ADVERSE
CHILDHOOD EXPERIENCES PHYSICAL
DISABILITIES AND OR MENTAL
HEALTH CHALLENGES.
HOWEVER, THEIR RESILIENCE TO
PERSEVERE DESPITE THE ADVERSITY
OF BEING HOUSE IS TRULY
INSPIRING.
I WORK WITH A YOUNG PERSON
LIVING IN THEIR CAR AND
SLEEPING IN PARKING LOTS.
THEY DESCRIBE THEIR CAR WITH
OPTIMISM AS A TWO BEDROOM
APARTMENT WITH A BLANKET
DIVIDING THE BACK BEDROOM.
I'VE WORKED WITH ANOTHER YOUNG
PERSON WHO CAME TO THE FOSTER
CARE SYSTEM WITH SIGNIFICANT
CHILDHOOD TRAUMA ALTHOUGH THEIR
FOSTER CARE SUPPORT ADVOCATES
DID THEIR BEST TO SERVE THEIR
NEEDS, THE LAYERS OF TRAUMA
WERE DEEPLY ROOTED BY UTILIZING
THE COMBINATION OF GETTING
HOUSED WITH THE HOUSING CHOICE
OR PROJECT BASED VOUCHER WITH
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES.
>> THEY STARTED TO DEVELOP
THEIR VERSION OF A LIFE WORTH
LIVING.
THEY'RE BOTH THRIVING IN THEIR
OWN SPACE NOW MAINTAINING
EMPLOYMENT, ATTENDING SCHOOL,
COMPLETING DRIVER'S TRAINING,
LEARNING HOW TO COOK HEALTHY
MEALS AND A KITCHEN THEY'VE
ALWAYS WANTED AND ONE OF THEM
IS EVEN ADVOCATING FOR OTHER
YOUTH IN OUR COMMUNITY THERE
ARE JUST THESE ARE JUST TWO
SCENARIOS AMONG COUNTLESS
OTHERS.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO ADD THAT
EVERYONE DESERVES A HOME.
HOWEVER, GETTING HOUSE IS JUST
ONE COMPONENT.
IT IS THE TEAM OF COMMUNITY
PARTNERS WORKING TOGETHER TO
HELP PEOPLE DEVELOP THEIR LIFE
SKILLS TO HOUSE THAT IS
CRITICAL.
IT IS ALSO THE COMING TOGETHER
IN SUPPORT OF THE RESIDENTS
OF OUR COUNTY THE LANDLORDS YOU
AS THE BOARD AND MOST OF ALL
THE YOUNG PEOPLE AND OTHERS IN
NEED THAT WILL MAKE THIS A
POSSIBILITY IN CLOSING WITHOUT
THESE FUNDS OVER SIX HUNDRED
AND FIFTY HOUSEHOLDS WILL NOT
RECEIVE THE CRITICAL SUPPORT
OF SERVICES THEY NEED TO
PERMANENTLY MAINTAIN THEIR
HOUSING AND THRIVE IN THE AREA
WE LIVE.
THEREFORE WE URGE YOU TO PASS
THIS RESOLUTION TO HELP PROCURE
AND FACILITATE THE MISSION TO
END HOMELESSNESS.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LESLIE
STAMBAUGH
.
HOW MANY OF US WOULD SAY UP FOR
A JOB THAT REQUIRED US TO STAND
WITHOUT BEING ABLE TO SIT DOWN
KIND OF TIME FOR EIGHT HOURS A
DAY OR SEVEN HOURS A DAY OR SIX
HOURS A DAY?
MOST OF US COULDN'T OR WOULDN'T
.
WE CAN'T EXPECT PEOPLE MOST
OF US DON'T EVEN EXPECT THAT
PEOPLE WOULD IMAGINE THAT WE
WOULD DO IF WE COULD WORK THAT
WAY BECAUSE STANDING UP FOR
HOURS IS BACKBREAKING WORK IN
ITSELF
.
WE WOULD WE CAN'T HELP BUT
ASSUME THAT THESE WOULD BE AT
LEAST OUR NEGOTIATIONS WITH
BUSINESS OWNERS OR SUPERVISORS
ABOUT WHAT STANDING WAS
NECESSARY AND WHAT OTHER
OPTIONS WERE AVAILABLE AND
STANDING WASN'T ESSENTIAL WHEN
COUNCIL MEMBER KALSI EDWYN
FIRST TOLD ME THAT SHE WAS
WORKING ON A RIGHTEST CITY
ORDINANCE.
I KNOW I WAS CONFUSED WHY WOULD
IT BE NEEDED IN TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR COURSE I KNEW THAT LAWS
LIKE THIS WERE NECESSARY IN THE
EARLY NINETEEN HUNDREDS BUT NOW
HAVEN'T WE ALL LEARNED BY NOW
THAT TREATING OUR EMPLOYEES
WELL IS THE WAY TO GO BETTER
PRODUCTIVITY, BETTER
SATISFACTION FOR JOBS, BETTER
MENTAL HEALTH, MORE HUMANE?
IT'S ALMOST CERTAINLY TRUE THAT
A LOT OF FOLKS WHO HAVE JOBS
THAT REQUIRE A GREAT DEAL
OF STANDING DO IN FACT HAVE
CHAIRS AVAILABLE FOR DOWNTIMES
AND FOR THOSE TIMES WHEN THE
WORK THAT THEY DO COULD REALLY
BE DONE JUST AS WELL SITTING
DOWN IT MAKES SO MUCH SENSE AND
IT MAKES SO LITTLE SENSE NOT TO
DO IT RIGHT TO SIT PROTECTION
IS NOT NEEDED EVERYWHERE BUT IT
IS NEEDED WHEN IT'S NEEDED.
WE'VE HEARD FROM PEOPLE IN LAST
CITY COUNCIL MEETING FOR
EXAMPLE IN PUBLIC COMMENT THAT
THERE IS STILL BUSINESS OWNERS
WHO ARE NOT ALLOW
ACCOMMODATIONS NECESSARY TO
KEEP THEIR WORKERS FROM RISKING
THEIR HEALTH JUST TO WORK IN
THAT PLACE PASSING RIGHT TO SIT
COULD OPEN UP OPPORTUNITIES FOR
LOCAL BUSINESSES TO TALK ABOUT
HOW THEY COULD STILL DO A GREAT
JOB WHILE LESSENING THE COST
OF THAT EFFORT ON THEIR
EMPLOYEES BODIES.
THE RIGHT TO SIT PROTECTION IS
BEING PROPOSED TO BECOME AN
AMENDMENT TO THE CITY'S
NONDISCRIMINATION ORDINANCE.
AS SUCH, IF IT'S ADOPTED, THE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION WOULD
PLAN TO ENFORCE IT IN WAYS THAT
ARE SIMILAR TO HOW WE KNOW
ENFORCE WORKPLACE
DISCRIMINATION.
WE'VE DISCUSSED THIS AS A
COMMISSION, APPRECIATE THE
INTENT OF THIS AMENDMENT AND
BELIEVE IT.
PASSING THIS ORDINANCE COULD
WORK WELL FOR BUSINESSES IN ANN
ARBOR AND FOR THOSE WHO WORK
THERE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALEXIS REID
.
>> HELLO EVERYONE.
MY NAME IS LEXIE AND I'M A LAW
SCHOOL STUDENT ALSO IN THE
SCHOOL OF SOCIAL WORK AT THE U
OF M.
I'M ALSO A SERVICE INDUSTRY
WORKER HERE WITHIN ANN ARBOR.
I'M HERE TO COMMENT ON THE
RIGHT TO SAY I MOVED TO ANN
ARBOR ABOUT TWO MONTHS AGO FROM
ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI WHERE
WORKERS ARE AFFORDED THE RIGHT
TO SIT AS A WORKER WHO CAN
SPEND ANYWHERE FROM SIX TO
FIFTEEN HOURS A DAY ON MY FEET.
THE RIGHT TO SIT HAS PROTECTED
MY PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH
BEING ABLE TO SIT WELL ON A
CLOCK DID NOT NEGATIVELY AFFECT
THE IMPACT OF MY WORK NOR DID
IT FINANCIALLY IMPACT MY
EMPLOYER.
I HAVE WORKED CLOSELY WITH
PEOPLE WHO HAVE EXPERIENCED
VARYING DISABILITIES AND THEIR
VARIOUS FORMS AND THE RIGHTS IT
HAS OFFERED THEM TO BE SEEN AND
HEARD IN THEIR PLACE
OF EMPLOYMENT UPON THE
EMPLOYMENT IMPLEMENTATION
OF THE REGISTERED AND SAY LOOK
THIS WORKER MORALE HAS ONLY
IMPROVED EMPLOYEES ARE FEELING
RESPECTED AND APPRECIATED AND
ACCOMMODATED EMPLOYERS ARE NOT
EXPERIENCING A SHORTAGE IN JOB
TAX BEING COMPLETED AND THE
RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN EMPLOYERS
AND EMPLOYEES HAVE GREATLY
IMPROVED.
THE RIGHT TO SET PROMOTES HUMAN
RIGHTS AND THE DIGNITY OF ALL
EMPLOYEES AND IT SHOULD BE
IMPLEMENTED INTO THE CITY
OF ANAKA.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ZACHARY
.
GOOD EVENING MA'AM.
MEMBERS OF CITY COUNCIL.
I'D LIKE TO THANK LUKSIK AND
OF COURSE TO STAND BALL FOR
THEIR SUPPORTIVE COMMENTS.
I ALSO AM SPEAKING ON BEHALF
OF AGENDA ITEMS C ONE DC DASH
ONE THE RIGHT TO CITY ORDINANCE
AS A MEMBER OF THE COMMISSION
ON DISABILITY ISSUES AND I'D
LIKE TO TAKE A MOMENT TO SPEAK
ABOUT THE RIGHT TO SIT
ORDINANCE AND OF COURSE MOST
IMPORTANTLY THE PROCESS BEHIND
IT
.
SO FIRST OF ALL I WANT TO LET
EVERYBODY KNOW THAT YOU KNOW
THE COMMISSION ON DISABILITY
ISSUES AS WELL AS MYSELF
PERSONALLY WE HAD THE PRIVILEGE
OF BEING INVOLVED EVERY STEP
OF THE WAY ON THIS PROCESS AND
MAKING SURE THAT THE VOICE
OF PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
WE'RE NOT ONLY HEARD BUT TAKEN
SERIOUSLY ON THIS ORDINANCE.
THIS ORDINANCE IS ABOUT MORE
THAN A PLACE TO REST.
IT'S ABOUT RECOGNIZING THAT
DISABILITY RIGHTS ARE INDEED
HUMAN RIGHTS.
THE ABILITY TO SIT WHEN NEEDED
IS FUNDAMENTAL AND THE
WELL-BEING RESIDENCE IS NOT
JUST FOR PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES WHO BENEFIT BUT
WHOEVER NEEDS IT, WHETHER IT'S
THE ELDERLY OR A PREGNANT WOMAN
OR SOMEBODY WITH A TEMPORARY
INJURY.
SO EVERYONE DESERVES THE
DIGNITY AND ACCESS TO BASIC
ACCOMMODATIONS.
BUT THIS IS NOT JUST ABOUT
INDIVIDUALS.
THIS IS ALSO GOOD BUSINESS
FOLKS.
I MEAN LET'S FACE IT, MAKING
OUR PUBLIC SPACES ACCESSIBLE
CREATES A MORE INCLUSIVE
COMMUNITY WHERE EVERYONE FEELS
WELCOME WHEN PEOPLE FEEL
SUPPORTED THEY CAN CONTRIBUTE
MORE FULLY WHEREAS EMPLOYEES,
PATRONS AND RESIDENTS CAN ALSO
ENJOY IT.
AND OUR CITY HAS A BIGGER
FINANCIAL EXCHANGE.
DISABILITY RIGHTS ARE
CORNERSTONES OF A THRIVING AND
INCLUSIVE COMMUNITY BY
SUPPORTING THE RIGHT TO SIT WE
ARE AFFIRMING OUR COMMITMENT TO
MAKING SURE THAT IN BARBER IS A
PLACE WHERE EVERYONE REGARDLESS
OF ABILITY CAN THRIVE.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JUST REALLY
GOOD EVENING MAYOR.
COUNCIL MEMBERS.
MY NAME IS JESS RILEY AND I'M A
GRADUATE SOCIAL WORK STUDENT AT
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
I'M HERE TODAY TO REITERATE MY
POINTS FROM LAST MEETING
SUPPORTING THE RIGHT TO SET
RESOLUTION AND ORDINANCE IF YOU
WANT ME REMEMBER I SPOKE ABOUT
MY EXPERIENCE AS SOMEONE IN
FOOD SERVICE WHO HAD BEEN
DENIED THE RIGHT TO SIT BEFORE
AS DID SEVERAL OTHERS IN
VARIOUS INDUSTRIES.
I ALSO BROUGHT ATTENTION TO THE
NEGATIVE HEALTH IMPACTS
OF PROLONGED STANDING.
I TOUCHED ON HOW THIS IS A
HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUE AND PROVIDED
EVIDENCE THAT THE RIGHTS IT
ACTUALLY LEADS TO PRODUCTIVITY
INCREASED PRODUCTIVITY IF
PASSED THIS WOULD BE AN
INCREDIBLE WIN FOR WORKERS
ACROSS THE CITY.
I HOPE THIS CAN BE UNANIMOUSLY
SUPPORTED BY COUNCIL AS IT
PROTECTS WORKERS RIGHTS AND
EMPHASIZES THE HEALTH, SAFETY
AND DIGNITY OF ALL EMPLOYEES.
I JUST WANT TO WRAP UP BY
SAYING THANK YOU TO EVERYONE
WHO'S COME OUT TO SUPPORT YOUR
RIGHT TO SET THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION AND THE COMMISSION
ON DISABILITY ISSUES FOR THEIR
CONTRIBUTIONS AND THE SPONSORS
OF THE RESOLUTION FOR BEING
CHAMPIONS ON THIS EFFORT.
I HOPE THAT YOU ALL CONTINUE TO
LISTEN TO THOSE WHO BE IMPACTED
BY THIS KEEPING IN MIND THAT
MANY CANNOT BE HERE BECAUSE
THEY'RE CURRENTLY WORKING.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS SEAN
HIGGINS.
THANKS.
MAYOR TAYLOR.
I'M SEAN HIGGINS WARD FOR
PRESIDENT AND SECRETARY OF ANN
ARBOR PUBLIC POWER.
I'M HERE TO SPEAK ON THE RFP
ELECTRIC GRID ASSET VALUATION
AND MUNICIPAL ZATION STUDY
ORGANIZATION HAS GONE BACK AND
FORTH WITH YOU FOLKS ON THIS
QUITE A BIT AND I WANT TO
EXPRESS GRATITUDE FOR YOUR TIME
AND AVAILABILITY TO DISCUSS
THIS RFP IN DETAIL.
BUT I'M HERE TO EXPRESS
CONCERNS ABOUT THE CONTENTS
OF THE RFP.
WE BELIEVE THIS STUDY SHOULD
RESOLVE A SINGLE COST VALUATION
AND PARTICULARLY INVOLVES
SERIOUS SERIOUS LEGAL ANALYSIS
OF THE STRANDED COSTS GOING
CONCERN.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE THE
FORMATION OF A FULL PUBLIC
ELECTRIC UTILITY GO ON THE
BALLOT IN ANN ARBOR AND I WOULD
LIKE THE PUBLIC TO BE INFORMED
ABOUT THE REAL POTENTIAL COST
OF MUNICIPAL CAUSATION WHEN
THAT HAPPENS, THE PHASE ONE
STUDY SHOWED THE POTENTIAL COST
IS CURRENTLY A WIDE RANGE
LARGELY COMPOSED OF THESE LEGAL
INTANGIBLES.
I APPRECIATE SOME OF THE
REASONS WE'VE GIVEN THAT THIS
ANALYSIS SHOULDN'T BE PART
OF THE STUDY, THAT THERE'S A
WAY OF LOCKING IN A SPECIFIC
APPROACH TO CIVILIZATION RATHER
THAN LOOKING AT OTHER
POSSIBILITIES WHICH COULD
WEAKEN EXHIBIT A IN A FUTURE
EVALUATION COURT CASE.
BUT WHAT I JUST DON'T GET IS
WHY THIS CONCERN OR THE DESIRE
TO WAIT UNTIL INTO A LITIGATION
TEAM IS DETERMINED FOR THIS
FUTURE COURT CASE MEANS THAT WE
SHOULDN'T EXPLICITLY ASK FOR
LEGAL ANALYSIS IN THE RFP FOR
THIS NEXT STUDY TO RESOLVE
THOSE VAST COST RANGES IN PHASE
ONE WITHOUT THE RESOLUTION
OF THOSE COSTS.
MY WORRY IS THE PEOPLE OF ANN
ARBOR WILL JUST NOT HAVE A
SUFFICIENTLY CLEAR PICTURE
OF WHAT THE COST OF IMMUNITY
COULD BE AND WE WON'T GET TO
THAT COURT CASE IN THE FIRST
PLACE BECAUSE THEY WILL BE ABLE
TO LEVERAGE THAT UNCERTAINTY TO
SCARE PEOPLE OFF OF THIS
OPPORTUNITY TO CREATE AN
ACCOUNTABLE ENERGY UTILITY THAT
HAS RELIABLE, RENEWABLE AND
AFFORDABLE POWER.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS GREG
WOODRING.
THANK YOU, MAYOR TAYLOR AND
COUNCIL MEMBERS.
MY NAME IS GREG WOODRING.
I'M THE PRESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR
PUBLIC POWER AND I AM HERE ALSO
SPEAKING ABOUT THE RFP FOR THE
MUNICIPAL VALUATION.
I WANT TO START BY SAYING THAT
I'M VERY GRATEFUL FOR THE WORK
THAT THIS COUNCIL HAS ALREADY
DONE IN MOVING THIS ISSUE
FORWARD.
IT IS FANTASTIC THAT YOU MET
WITH US THAT YOU MOVED FORWARD
THE PHASE ONE STUDY YOU MOVE
AND ARE MOVING FORWARD THE
PHASE TWO STUDY IT IS WE ONLY
NEED TO LOOK AT THE NEWS RIGHT
NOW TO UNDERSTAND THE URGENCY
OF THIS ISSUE.
OVERLAPPING HURRICANES LEADING
TO DISASTERS AT CHEMICAL PLANTS
SPELL'S A HORRIFYING VISION
OF THE FUTURE THAT IS ONLY
GOING TO CONTINUE TO ESCALATE
THE NEED FOR URGENCY ON CLIMATE
HAS NEVER BEEN MORE CLEAR.
I WORRY THAT THE WAY THAT THE
PHASE TWO STUDY IS POSITIONED
IS GOING TO CAUSE UNNECESSARY
DELAYS.
THERE IS A LONG HISTORY
OF PHASE TWO STUDIES THROUGHOUT
THIS COUNTRY.
YES, THIS WOULD BE THE FIRST
TIME BY ACQUISITION
OF MUNICIPAL UTILITY WAS FORMED
IN MICHIGAN.
HOWEVER, THIS IS A PROCESS THAT
HAS BEEN DONE SUCCESSFULLY BY
MANY OTHER CITIES ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT THOSE STUDIES
THEY PROVIDE A SINGLE COST
NUMBER FOR THE VALUATION
OF ASSETS AND THEY DO
OFTENTIMES ALMOST UNIVERSALLY
INCLUDE A LEGAL STUDY AS A
PORTION OF THAT COST AS SHOWN
ALREADY OUTLINED THE COSTS TWO
HUNDRED EIGHTY MILLION TO ONE
POINT ONE FIVE BILLION LARGELY
IS DRIVEN BY UNCERTAINTY OVER
THE LEGAL COSTS.
I'M VERY GRATEFUL THAT THIS
COUNCIL HAS TAKEN THIS ISSUE
SERIOUSLY ENOUGH TO ALLOCATE
ONE MILLION DOLLARS IN FUNDING
FOR THIS STUDY.
HOWEVER, SUCH A WELL FUNDED
STUDY CERTAINLY CAN INCLUDE A
LEGAL ANALYSIS IN ORDER TO
NARROW DOWN RANGE AND I FOR
PUBLIC POWER DID COMMISSION A
LEGAL STUDY INTO THE PHASE ONE
FEASIBILITY STUDY.
WE ASKED CHRIS BINSTOCK, FORMER
MAYOR OF TRAVERSE CITY AND
MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF TRAVERSE
CITY POWER AND LIGHT.
IN ADDITION TO BEING AN
ENVIRONMENTAL LAWYER THAT WORKS
ON RAPE CASES AT THE STATE
LEVEL TO LOOK AT THIS STUDY AND
HE FOUND THAT THE HIGH END
VALUATION NUMBERS WERE SIMPLY
UNSUPPORTED, THAT THERE WAS NOT
A LEGITIMATE REASON TO INCLUDE
THOSE HIGH END ESTIMATE NUMBERS
IF THIS PHASE TWO STUDY
INCLUDES SUCH A HIGH RANGE
OF ESTIMATES, IT IS GOING TO
LEAD TO UNNECESSARY UNCERTAINTY
AND DELAYS AND IT WILL REQUIRE
FURTHER WORK BY THIS COUNCIL IN
ORDER TO NARROW DOWN THAT
NUMBER SO THAT THE PUBLIC IS
SUFFICIENTLY INFORMED.
I HOPE THAT THE RFP WILL BE
AMENDED SO THAT AT THE
CONCLUSION OF THIS STUDY WE ARE
WELL POSITIONED TO FIGHT FOR A
GOOD FAIR VALUATION OF THE
ASSETS AND MOVE FORWARD
AGGRESSIVELY TOWARDS 100
PERCENT MUNICIPAL IZATION
BECAUSE AS THE PHASE ONE STUDY
ITSELF SHOWED, THAT IS OUR ONLY
ROUTE TO ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
RENEWABLE POWER FOR AN ARBOR.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ANDRE
WATSON
.
GOOD AFTERNOON FOR MEMBERS.
I'M HERE TODAY WITH ROLANDO
HERE WE'RE REPRESENTING THE
ELKS LODGE.
>> FIRST OF ALL, WE'D LIKE TO
THANK THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR FOR
ALL OF THE CONTRIBUTIONS AND
MAKING US A PART OF THE
BICENTENNIAL PROGRAM THAT
ALLOWS US TO RAISE FUNDS TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE PART OF AN
NO FOR ANOTHER TWO HUNDRED OR
SO YEARS.
BUT TODAY WE'RE HERE TO
ANNOUNCE AN UPCOMING EVENT
WHERE WE WILL BE INVITING THE
COMMUNITY OUT SO WE CAN SO THAT
THEY CAN LEARN MORE ABOUT THE
COMMUNITY AND THAT THOSE WHO
HAVE BEEN TO OUR LIVES BEFORE
CAN REACQUAINT THEMSELVES WITH
WHAT'S GOING ON THAT'S NEW
THERE.
WE ALSO ARE WE HAVE A SPECIAL
THANK YOU TO THE NARBOROUGH
AREA COMMUNITY FOUNDATION FOR
THEIR VISION TO PROVIDE THE
NECESSARY SUPPORT SO THAT WE
CAN HAVE THIS EVENT.
WE ALSO REALIZE THAT VERY FEW
PEOPLE KNEW ABOUT THE LODGE.
>> IT'S A CRITICAL PART IN
ESSENCE THE COMMUNITY SPACE FOR
THE HISTORICALLY
AFRICAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY OUT
OF NECESSITY AND BUT SO MANY
SOME NO BUT THERE ARE MANY WHO
DID NOT KNOW AND SO WHAT ARE
OUR OBJECTIVE IS TO INTRODUCE
IT TO THE OVERALL COMMUNITIES
AND WE WOULD ASK YOU ALL TO
PLEASE PUSH WITHIN YOUR
NETWORKS.
IT'S A VERY SPECIAL PLACE.
NOT ONLY IS IT CRITICAL TO ANN
ARBOR, I DON'T THINK ANOTHER
PLACE EXISTS OF ITS KIND WITH
THE MAGNITUDE I THINK THREE
ACRES IT'S A BEAUTIFUL
ESTABLISHMENT AND THERE ARE
MANY CITIZENS WHO JUST DON'T
KNOW ABOUT IT.
BUT WE DO BELIEVE THAT THIS
AFFAIR WOULD ALLOW THEM TO KNOW
ABOUT IT, BECOME MORE ACTIVE
AND SUPPORT AND WE JUST EXCITED
TO PUSH IT WITHIN YOUR NETWORK
SO THAT WE CAN MAKE THIS HAPPEN
BECAUSE IT IS VERY ESSENTIAL
AND THAT'S WHAT CONVICTED ME AS
A CITIZEN.
THAT'S THE ONLY REAL REASON I
LIVE IN ANN ARBOR IS BECAUSE I
CAN FIND PLACES TO IDENTIFY
WITH.
IT'S PLEASANT
AND IT'S NICE
HERE BUT IT HELPS TO SEE
OTHERS.
YEAH, SO THIS WOULD BE A
TERRIBLE THING TO LOSE.
ROLANDO IS GOING TO EXPLAIN
MORE ABOUT THE DAY ITSELF.
OH SO JUST LET THE COMMUNITY
FIND IT LITERALLY JUST I'M SO
SORRY WE HAVE A THERE THERE ARE
RULES ABOUT THAT.
WE WERE NOT ABLE TO TRANSFER
TIME TO TALK TO OTHER SPEAKERS.
>> YOU ARE BEING TOTALLY COOL
ABOUT IT.
IT WOULD BE ABUSED IN OTHER
CONTEXTS.
SO MY APOLOGIES BUT YOU STILL
HAVE THE FLOOR, MR. WATSON, IF
YOU CAN TALK A LITTLE BIT
OF THAT AND HAVE YOU FINALLY
BITS WE'RE GOING TO HAVE FOOD.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE MUSIC,
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE THINGS THAT
ARE REALLY INTERTWINED WITH
CULTURE COMMUNITY AND IT'S
SOMETHING THAT TO BE PRESERVED
FROM THE OLD ANN ARBOR.
I'M SURE MANY OF US ARE AWARE
OF HOW NEW THINGS ARE AROUND
HERE, HOW THINGS ARE CHANGING
SO THERE SYNERGIES AND
PRESERVING THIS SPOT AND ITS
PLACE AND REINTRODUCING THIS
SPOT TO THE NEW COMMUNITY.
IS THERE A DATE?
YUP.
SORRY OCTOBER TWENTY SEVEN FROM
TWO P.M. TO SIX THIRTY PM THE
BEST.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THANK BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KEN CABA
.
THANK YOU
THANK YOU.
MY MCCAIN GOVERNOR SECOND WOMAN
LIKE MR. HIGGINS AND MR.
WOODRING I'M HERE TO TALK ABOUT
THE FEASIBILITY STUDY RFP.
YOU KNOW I'VE BEEN INVOLVED
WITH DENHA FOR PUBLIC POWER FOR
FIVE YEARS AND I'VE NEVER FELT
THIS HOPELESS AND THE REASON IS
THAT IT LOOKS TO ME LIKE THIS
IS DESIGNED TO FAIL NOT FAIL US
BUT FAIL THE PUBLIC.
THE MAIN PURPOSE OF ANY PHASE
TO STUDY IS TO PLACE A VALUE ON
THE PRIVATE UTILITIES LOCAL
ASSETS THAT VALUATION HAS TWO
PARTS BUT THIS STUDY WON'T BE
DELIVERED.
ONE DTD OF PHYSICAL ASSETS THE
POLES, WIRES, TRANSFORMERS,
SUBSTATIONS BUT NOT THE
INTANGIBLES WHICH MAY BE EQUAL
OR EVEN GREATER IN VALUE.
THESE INCLUDE STRANDED CARS
WHICH IS LEFT OVER DTD
GENERATION OF ANY AND GROWING
CONCERN WHICH IS CUSTOMER
GOODWILL AND THE VALUE
OF FRANCHISE.
SORRY I'M GETTING WONKY HERE.
THE IMPORTANT THING IS THAT
THIS STUDY WILL LEAVE THE
PUBLIC WITH NO IDEA WHAT
INDUSTRIALIZATION WILL COST AS
MR. WITTERING POINTED OUT YES
THE WORD STRANDED COSTS GOING
CONCERN FRANCHISE VALUE ARE IN
THE RFP BUT STAFF HAS STATED
AND YOU'VE TOLD US IN MEETINGS
THAT THERE WILL BE NO
EVALUATION INSTEAD IT WILL BE
QUOTE CAFETERIA OF NUMBERS
APPROACH AGNOSTIC ONE FOR TWO
REASONS FOR NOT COSTING
INTANGIBLES ONE BECAUSE ONLY
THE COURT CAN DECIDE THIS
STRICTLY SPEAKING THAT'S
CORRECT.
BUT A THOROUGH LEGAL AND
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS WOULD GIVE US
A GOOD IDEA.
THE FIRST STRANDED COSTS RULE
RUN SEVEN HUNDRED EIGHTY THREE
PAGES NOT INCLUDING UPDATES
PRECEDENT CASES SHOULD BE
CAREFULLY ANALYZED BY A STRONG
LEGAL TEAM.
THEY CAN REPORT CONFIDENTIALLY
AND WHILE THERE IS LITTLE
PRECEDENT FOR PRICING A
PERPETUAL UTILITY FRANCHISE
FRANCHISE VALUATION IS NOT A
BLACK ART STANDARD METHODS
EXIST WE CAN USE THEM.
THE SECOND REASON WE'VE BEEN
TOLD FOR NOT VALUING AN
INTANGIBLES IS THAT EVALUATION
WILL LOCK US IN ONCE WE'RE IN
COURT.
THE OTHER SPEAKERS HAVE
ADDRESSED THIS WITH ALL DUE
RESPECT IT DOESN'T MAKE ANY
SENSE TO ME WHEN YOU START A
CONDEMNATION PROCEEDING YOU
MAKE AN OFFER.
IF THE OTHER PARTY DOESN'T
AGREE YOU GO TO COURT BUT IT
ALL BEGINS WITH YOUR OFFER.
EVERYONE ACCEPTS THAT THE
JUDGE'S DOLLAR FIGURE COULD
DIVERGE FROM YOURS BUT YOU
START OUT MAKING THE BEST AND
MOST DEFENSIBLE ARGUMENT
POSSIBLE.
THIS STUDY WILL NOT DO THAT SO
WE WON'T GIVE OUR LAWYERS OR
MORE IMPORTANTLY THE PUBLIC THE
INFORMATION THEY NEED.
>> VOTERS WILL BE ABLE TO
DECIDE TO RATIONALLY DECIDE IN
TWENTY TWENTY SIX WHEN THE TIME
COMES TO VOTE ON THIS ISSUE.
THESE PROBLEMS ARE EASY TO FIX
.
EXACTLY A MONTH AGO WE SENT YOU
SOME COMMON SENSE OUR
AMENDMENTS PLEASE ADOPT THEM OR
EQUIVALENT ONES.
IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO MAKE THIS
A PROPER STUDY.
>> THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BRIAN
CARRIGER.
OH THANK YOU.
>> HELLO MAYOR, COUNCIL
ADMINISTRATOR AND CLERK.
MY NAME IS BRIAN GEHRINGER.
I AM THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
OF ANN ARBOR FOR PUBLIC POWER.
I AM COME HERE TO SPEAK ON THE
SAME ISSUE AS MR. GARBER,
WOODRING AND HIGGINS HEART
OF ALL OF THEM UP BECAUSE
THEY'VE DONE A GREAT JOB LAYING
ALL THIS OUT.
BUT I'LL ADD A LITTLE I DO WANT
TO THANK YOU FOR ALLOWING ME TO
MAKE PUBLIC COMMENT AND FOR ALL
YOUR SERIOUS WORK ON THE
PROJECT OF MUNICIPAL IZATION.
WE ARE HERE IN THE MIDST OF TWO
ONE HUNDRED YEAR HURRICANES
HITTING THE COUNTRY ONE AFTER
THE OTHER AS WE KNOW EVER
ACCELERATING PRODUCTION
OF GREENHOUSE GASES IN OUR
COUNTRY AND AROUND THE WORLD
HAVE LED TO BETTER AND BETTER
CONDITIONS FOR EXTREME WEATHER.
THE WARMING OCEANS HAVE LED TO
MILTON HARLENE, KATRINA, MARIA
AND DESTABILIZATION OF OUR
CLIMATE HAS LED TO DISASTER
AFTER DISASTER LIKE THE GREAT
WINTER STORM IN TEXAS A COUPLE
OF YEARS AGO.
DESPITE OUR RELATIVE SAFETY
AMONG THE GREAT LAKES ONLY A
FOOL WOULD THINK THAT DISASTER
IS NOT COMING FOR US AS WELL.
JUST LOOK AT ASHEVILLE, NORTH
CAROLINA.
THREE HUNDRED AND THIRTY MILES
FROM THE ATLANTIC OCEAN.
TWENTY ONE HUNDRED FEET ABOVE
SEA LEVEL ALMOST ENTIRELY
DESTROYED BY HURRICANE HELENE
TODAY.
THAT'S FROM FOSSIL FUELS IN
THIS MOMENT IS A PATH TOWARD
REGAINING OUR COLLECTIVE SANITY
AND OUR COMMITTED TO DOING SO
AND IS VERY VALIANT FOR THIS
EFFORT.
ONE OF THE CORNERSTONE GOALS
OF THE TWO ZERO PLAN IS ZERO
CARBON EMISSIONS FROM
ELECTRICITY BY 2030 AND ONE
THAT CAN BE REACHED IF AND ONLY
IF WE UNPLUG FROM IT AND SET UP
A PUBLIC POWER UTILITY WITHIN A
CITY ONE THAT CAN CHOOSE TO
DIVEST FROM DTRS DIRTY ENERGY
AND PRODUCE PURCHASE POWER FROM
AND INCENTIVIZE THE CREATION
OF RENEWABLE SOURCES INSTEAD.
BUT REGARDLESS OF WHAT HAPPENS
WITH THE CLIMATE, GETTING RID
OF DC IS ALSO ABSOLUTELY
CRITICAL FOR A SECOND REASON
WANT TO WIN THE CLIMATE
CATASTROPHE COMES TO SOUTHEAST
MICHIGAN.
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN DTG GRID
RELIABILITY RANKING IN THE
BOTTOM FIVE OF THE NATION AND
THAT OF TERRYTOWN POWER OUR
EVENTUAL PUBLIC ELECTRIC
UTILITY IS THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN DOZENS, HUNDREDS OR
THOUSANDS OF LIVES.
IS THAT SERIOUS?
>> AND I THINK THE EVIDENCE
BACKS THAT UP NOW IS THE MOMENT
TO SHOW SERIOUSNESS ABOUT THESE
ISSUES BY ENSURING THAT A
SECOND FEASIBILITY STUDY ON
MUTUALIZATION INCLUDES THE
NECESSARY LEGAL ANALYSIS SO
THAT THIS CAN BE THE LAST
FEASIBILITY STUDY BEFORE WE
INITIATE THE DISPOSITION
PROCESS ON THIS HAND YOU'LL SEE
THAT THE OVERWHELMING MAJORITY
AS OTHERS HAVE MENTIONED, THE
OVERALL MAJORITY OF UNKNOWN
VALUATION FROM THE PHASE ONE
STUDY IS DUE TO UNKNOWN LEGAL
COSTS SPECIFICALLY GOING
CONCERN WE'VE ALSO SEEN THE
HIGH END ESTIMATES ARE WITHOUT
STRONG LOGICAL BACKING BUT
REGARDLESS IT MAKES NO SENSE TO
CONDUCT AN ENTIRE SECOND
FEASIBILITY STUDY WITHOUT
ATTEMPTING TO CLEAR UP THIS
LARGEST UNKNOWN.
>> I'M GOING TO SKIP AHEAD A
BIT AND JUST SAY THE INCLUSION
OF A PROPER LEGAL ANALYSIS IN
THE PHASE TWO STUDY WOULD COME
AT A RELATIVELY SMALL COST.
IT'S NOT TOO LATE AND I THINK
IT WOULD HAVE A VASTLY OUTSIDE
BENEFIT TO OUR CITY'S FUTURE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS RALPH
MCKIE.
GOOD EVENING, RALPH AND KEITH
WARD FIVE.
I'M SPEAKING TONIGHT PROPOSALS
AND I'LL START WITH US.
THE NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY
SLOGAN I SAW TODAY AND I HEAR A
SIGN WAS UNITY OVER DIVISION
AND HOPE OVER FEAR TRUTH OVER
LIES BIG TENT INCLUSIVE BUT NOT
HERE.
YOUR CAMPAIGN OPPOSING THE
PROPOSALS IS DIVISIVE FEAR
MONGERING FUELED BY LIES YOU
SAY SUPPORTERS OF THE PROPOSALS
ARE CONSERVATIVES AND
REPUBLICANS.
I'M NOT NONE OF THE PEOPLE THAT
SIGNED MY PETITIONS THEY
CIRCULATED OUR AND NEITHER
OF THE VAST MAJORITY
OF SUPPORTERS.
SO THAT'S A DIVISIVE LIKE JUST
CALLING KAMALA HARRIS A MARXIST
DENIER SAID THE LEADERS ARE
FORMER COUNCIL MEMBERS WHO ARE
REPUBLICANS OR VOTED WITH
REPUBLICANS.
I KNOW YOU DON'T LIKE ELIZABETH
NELSON BUT SHE'S NOT A
REPUBLICAN.
THERE HAVE BEEN REPUBLICAN
COUNCIL FOR YEARS.
PERHAPS SHE IS SIMPLE REPLACE
LOW TURNOUT PRIMARIES WITH HIGH
TURNOUT, NONPARTISAN GENERAL
ELECTIONS IN PARTICULAR HAVE
MORE STUDENTS VOTE.
BUT YOU SAY PRIVACY IS INTENDED
TO AND COULD RESULT DEATH
EXTREMISTS WINNING JUNK, ANYONE
RUNNING WHO HAS ANY REPUBLICAN
CONNECTIONS EVEN FROM THE PAST
WILL BE OUTED IMMEDIATELY BY
MULTIPLE MAILERS AND WILL HAVE
NO CHANCE.
LOOK AT WHAT HAPPENED TO JANE
HARMAN.
TWENTY TWENTY.
DO THE MATH SINCE OUR
ELECTORATE ELECTORATE IS LESS
THAN FIFTEEN PERCENT REPUBLICAN
FOR THEM TO WIN AT LEAST SIX
DEMS WOULD HAVE TO RUN ALL
GETTING EXACTLY FOURTEEN
PERCENT.
THE ODDS OF THAT ARE MINUSCULE.
THAT'S SCARE TACTICS.
THEN YOU SAY PERHAPS THERE'S NO
RUNOFFS.
HOW HORRIBLE SOMEBODY COULD WIN
BY POLARITY.
WELL THAT'S HAPPENED IN OUR
CURRENT SYSTEM IN TWENTY TWENTY
TWO DHAMMAKAYA AND ONE A
PLURALITY IN A TIGHT RACE OVER
NELSON WHO KNOWS WHAT IT
HAPPENED IN A RUNOFF.
WHERE WERE ALL THE SCREAMS
ABOUT RUNOFFS AND THEN IT WOULD
HAVE HAPPENED IN WARD FIVE TO
THAT YEAR UNTIL RANKINS TREPTOW
IT'S HAPPENED A COUPLE OTHER
TIMES IN THIRTY ELECTIONS OVER
THE PAST TWELVE YEARS.
BIG DEAL.
THAT'S A MINOR ISSUE WHERE ALL
THE CRITICS AND MAYOR TAYLOR
VETOED A NONPARTISAN PROPOSAL
WITH RUNOFFS IN TWENTY TWENTY
AND YOUR FACTION SUSTAIN THAT
VETO MOSTLY SILENT JENEA SEEKS
TO DEFLECT NOW BY SAYING SHE
SPONSORED RANKED CHOICE VOTING
IN TWENTY TWENTY ONE.
WELL IT LOOKS LIKE OUR KVI
ISN'T A PRIORITY FOR THE
ESTABLISHMENT DEMS IN THE STATE
HOUSES.
WE MIGHT WAIT A LONG TIME.
YOU DON'T CARE THE SYSTEM'S
GREAT FOR YOU.
THE HYPOCRISY IS PALPABLE GIVEN
THE TOTAL DOMINANCE OF THE DEMS
HERE.
THE ARGUMENT THAT A D ON THE
BAILOUT PROVIDES VALUABLE INFO
HAS NO MERIT EVERY VIABLE
CANDIDATE WILL BE A DEMOCRAT.
THE REMAINING ARGUMENT I'VE
SEEN IS THAT THE PROPOSALS ARE
BARRIERS TO CANDIDATES WITH
DIVERSE BACKGROUNDS
.
NOW WE'RE INTO ORWELLIAN
DOUBLESPEAK.
PROP C IS NO BARRIER AND
PROPERTY IS DESIGNED
SPECIFICALLY TO TEAR DOWN A
MONEY BARRIER BY PROVIDING
FUNDING HELP FOR GRASSROOTS
CANDIDATES WHO AREN'T BACKED BY
THE BIG MONEY MACHINE.
THAT ARGUMENT'S REALLY WEAK.
I DON'T HAVE TIME TONIGHT TO
GET INTO PROPERTY BUT GIVEN THE
WEAK ARGUMENTS YOU'VE MADE ON
PROPERTY YOU DON'T HAVE ANY
CREDIBILITY ANYWAY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ARE YOUR COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNSEL?
>> COUNTERMAN BRITISH THANK YOU
TAYLOR.
>> I WANT TO RELAY A MESSAGE
FROM DEREK MILLER WHO IS THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE
COMMUNITY ACTION NETWORK WHICH
IS ONE OF THE ORGANIZATIONS WHO
OR THAT'S SUPPORTED WITH OUR
THE REBATE THAT WE GET FROM THE
COMMUNITY PUBLIC HEALTH AND
SAFETY SORRY.
>> SO IT CAN WORKS IN
PARTNERSHIP WITH FOOD FOOD
GATHERERS AND IT TURNS OUT THAT
THEY ARE NOW SERVING DOUBLE THE
FOOD THEY DID TWO YEARS AGO
WHICH IS TO SAY THAT THEY HAVE
TWICE AS MUCH FOOD WHICH IS
GREAT BUT THEY HAVE FOUR TIMES
AS MANY PEOPLE PARTICIPATING IN
THEIR FOOD DISTRIBUTION
PROGRAMS AND SO THAT MEANS THAT
THE PARTICIPANTS ARE GETTING ON
AVERAGE ABOUT HALF AS MUCH FOOD
PER HOUSEHOLD AS COMPARED TO
FOUR YEARS GO.
>> YOU SHOULD KNOW THAT THE
BRYANT MARKET WHICH THE BRYANT
COMMUNITY CENTER OPERATED BY
HAND HAD TO CLOSE EVERY TUESDAY
IN SEPTEMBER BECAUSE IT DIDN'T
HAVE ENOUGH FOOD TO SERVE.
SO IF YOU ARE IN A POSITION TO
HELP OUT, THEY RELY ON
DONATIONS OF MIRES GIFT CARDS
TO CLOSE THE GAP BETWEEN FOOD
SUPPLY AND DEMAND AND YOU CAN
DO THAT DONATION THE SAME WAY
THAT YOU WOULD DONATE MONEY.
YOU BUY THE CARDS YOU TAKE THEM
TO CANNES AND THEY WILL GIVE
YOU A RECEIPT FOR YOUR TAXES IF
THOSE ARE USEFUL TO YOU.
I OFTEN HEAR FROM PEOPLE WHEN
I'M KNOCKING DOORS WHICH I'M
DOING A LOT OF RIGHT NOW THAT
THEY WISH THAT WE WERE DOING
MORE AND COULD DO MORE TO
SUPPORT PEOPLE WHO ARE IN
PRECARIOUS ECONOMIC SITUATIONS.
SO HERE'S ONE SMALL THING THAT
MANY OF US NOT ALL OF US BUT
MANY OF US CAN DO.
AND FINALLY I WOULD LIKE TO I
WOULD LIKE TO SAY WHAT A HAPPY
TIME I HAD LAST WEEKEND AT THE
GALLERY OF THE ANN ARBOR ART
CENTER THANKS TO COUNCIL MEMBER
JAN CORNELL AND HER COLLEAGUES
AT THE EXHIBITION OF THE
PHOTOGRAPHS OF PETE SOUZA WHO
WAS WHITE HOUSE PHOTOGRAPHER
FOR PRESIDENT RONALD REAGAN AND
PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA AND HIS
FAMILY.
AND THERE ARE PICTURES FROM
PETE SOUZA'S WORK ON THE OBAMAS
COUNCIL MARIAH, THANK YOU.
>> I'M GLAD THAT A PUBLIC
COMMENTER BROUGHT UP RANKED
CHOICE VOTING TONIGHT BECAUSE
IT REMINDED ME THAT JUST THIS
MORNING I WAS LISTENING TO THE
MEURS MONDAY PODCAST WAS THE
MICHIGAN INFORMATION SHOOT.
>> I FORGET WHAT IT STANDS FOR
BUT IT'S JUST MURRES.
IT'S ONE IT'S ONE OF THE TWO
ORGANIZATIONS THAT COVER THE
LEGISLATIVE LANDSCAPE AND
POLITICS AND IN EVERYTHING IN
MICHIGAN AND MICHIGAN
INFORMATION AND RESEARCH
SERVICE.
ANYWAY, YOU CAN LISTEN TO THE
MEURS MONDAY PODCAST WITHOUT A
SUBSCRIPTION TO MURRES AND
TODAY THEY COVERED THEY TALKED
TO THE TWO ACTIVISTS WHO ARE
BEHIND RANK MY VOTE WHICH IS
NEW EFFORT.
IT'S THE SAME FOLKS WHO BROUGHT
US REDISTRICTING, INDEPENDENT
REDISTRICTING IN MICHIGAN AND
NOW THEY'RE LOOKING AT BRINGING
RANKED CHOICE VOTING TO THE
STATE VIA A BALLOT INITIATIVE.
SO THEY'RE STILL IN THE
INFORMATION GATHERING STAGE AND
TALKING TO COMMUNITIES ACROSS
STATE ABOUT WHAT THEY'RE
LOOKING FOR AND WHAT THE
PRIORITIES WOULD BE IN TERMS
OF HOW IT'S SET UP.
IS THERE A PRIMARY IS THERE NOT
A PRIMARY?
IS IT PARTIZAN?
IS IT NONPARTISAN?
ALL OF THOSE SORTS OF THINGS.
BUT THEY DID GIVE A SHOUT OUT
TO ANN ARBOR FOR ALREADY
PASSING IT AND AND TALKED ABOUT
IT BEING A PRIORITY TO HELP US
AS A CITY IMPLEMENT RANK CHOICE
VOTING AS WE ENVISION IT HERE.
>> SO WE HAVE THEN OF COURSE
LOBBYING FOR THE CHANGE WITH
OUR STATE LEGISLATORS SINCE
PASSING AND PUTTING IT IN OUR
CHARTER IN TWENTY TWENTY ONE.
BUT THIS COULD BE A NEW EFFORT
THAT COULD REALLY MOVE THE
NEEDLE AND GET US WHERE WE NEED
TO BE IN TERMS OF IMPLEMENTING
RANK CHOICE VOTING HERE AND
THAT IS A VOTER REFORM AND
ELECTION REFORM THAT I THINK
WOULD BE WORTH SOMETHING NOT
PROPOSAL C WHICH GETS RID OF A
PRIMARY ALTOGETHER AND TURNS
OUR COUNCIL ELECTIONS INTO A
BIG NOVEMBER FREE FOR ALL.
>> THANK YOU FATHER
COMMUNICATION FROM CELTEL
COUNCIL MCCONNELL THANK YOU.
I KNOW FAMILY CALENDARS GET
BUSY SO I WANT TO MAKE SURE TO
MENTION THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY
THAT OUR DOWNTOWN COMMUNITY
WIDE TRICK OR TREAT IS ON
SUNDAY OCTOBER TWENTY SEVEN
ELEVEN THIRTY TO TWO THIRTY PM
A LOT OF THE BUSINESSES
DOWNTOWN WILL BE PARTICIPATING.
IT'S A FREE COMMUNITY EVENT.
YOU CAN BRING YOUR FAMILY DOWN
.
IT'S EXTREMELY FAMILY FRIENDLY
OBVIOUSLY COSTUMES ARE HIGHLY
.
ENCOURAGED AS IT IS HALLOWEEN
OBVIOUSLY COSTUMES ARE HIGHLY
TREAT AND IT'S A REALLY GOOD
ENCOURAGED AS IT IS HALLOWEEN
CHANCE.
TREAT AND IT'S A REALLY GOOD
>> I WILL SAY AS A MOM TO GET
CHANCE.
COATS ON YOUR KIDS ON HALLOWEEN
>> I WILL SAY AS A MOM TO GET
IF THEY'VE COME A FEW DAYS
COATS ON YOUR KIDS ON HALLOWEEN
BEFORE AND REALIZE THAT GOING
IF THEY'VE COME A FEW DAYS
WITHOUT THEIR COAT IS NOT GOING
BEFORE AND REALIZE THAT GOING
TO WORK FOR THEM ON HALLOWEEN
WITHOUT THEIR COAT IS NOT GOING
NIGHT.
TO WORK FOR THEM ON HALLOWEEN
SO THAT MIGHT BE A PAIN SAVER
NIGHT.
FOR OTHER MOMS OUT THERE.
SO THAT MIGHT BE A PAIN SAVER
BUT IT'S SOMETHING THAT THE
FOR OTHER MOMS OUT THERE.
DOWNTOWN MERCHANTS BUSINESSES
BUT IT'S SOMETHING THAT THE
REALLY LOOK FORWARD TO DOING TO
DOWNTOWN MERCHANTS BUSINESSES
CONTRIBUTE TO OUR COMMUNITY AND
REALLY LOOK FORWARD TO DOING TO
TO BRING PEOPLE DOWNTOWN.
CONTRIBUTE TO OUR COMMUNITY AND
SO OCTOBER TWENTY SEVEN, SUNDAY
TO BRING PEOPLE DOWNTOWN.
ELEVEN THIRTY TO TWO THIRTY
SO OCTOBER TWENTY SEVEN, SUNDAY
PLEASE COME AND JOIN US AND
ELEVEN THIRTY TO TWO THIRTY
ENJOY TRICK OR TREATING AS A
PLEASE COME AND JOIN US AND
PREVIEW FOR THE MAIN EVENT
ENJOY TRICK OR TREATING AS A
KJELLSTROM OUR SONG WE ANN
PREVIEW FOR THE MAIN EVENT
ARBOR HOSTED AN AMAZING
KJELLSTROM OUR SONG WE ANN
FUNDRAISER IN SUPPORT
ARBOR HOSTED AN AMAZING
OF CONGRESSWOMAN DEBBIE DINGELL
FUNDRAISER IN SUPPORT
YESTERDAY WITH OUR GOVERNOR
OF CONGRESSWOMAN DEBBIE DINGELL
HERE IN SUPPORT AS WELL AS
YESTERDAY WITH OUR GOVERNOR
CONGRESSMAN JIM CLYBURN FROM
HERE IN SUPPORT AS WELL AS
SOUTH CAROLINA ALL THREE
CONGRESSMAN JIM CLYBURN FROM
POWERHOUSE CAME TO POWER HOUSE
SOUTH CAROLINA ALL THREE
KIDS CAME TO ANN ARBOR
POWERHOUSE CAME TO POWER HOUSE
SPECIFICALLY TO SPEAK TO HOW
KIDS CAME TO ANN ARBOR
ESSENTIAL IT IS TO BE A
SPECIFICALLY TO SPEAK TO HOW
DEMOCRAT IN THE CITY AND
ESSENTIAL IT IS TO BE A
PRESERVE NOT ONLY CONGRESSWOMAN
DEMOCRAT IN THE CITY AND
DINGELL SPACE IN CONGRESS BUT
PRESERVE NOT ONLY CONGRESSWOMAN
HAVE HELPED HER BRING FRIENDS
DINGELL SPACE IN CONGRESS BUT
IN MICHIGAN TO DO THIS GOOD
HAVE HELPED HER BRING FRIENDS
WORK.
IN MICHIGAN TO DO THIS GOOD
>> I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
WORK.
REMEMBER THAT IT'S PROBABLY NOT
>> I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
A GOOD TIME TO THROW AWAY PARTY
REMEMBER THAT IT'S PROBABLY NOT
LABELS CONSIDERING HOW
A GOOD TIME TO THROW AWAY PARTY
CONSEQUENTIAL A NUMBER OF RACES
LABELS CONSIDERING HOW
ARE IN THE STATES IN THE STATE
CONSEQUENTIAL A NUMBER OF RACES
LEGISLATURE.
ARE IN THE STATES IN THE STATE
>> WE ONLY HAVE A MAJORITY
LEGISLATURE.
OF ONE AND IF YOU LOOK AT THE
>> WE ONLY HAVE A MAJORITY
REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH WORK AND I
OF ONE AND IF YOU LOOK AT THE
WAS HELD UP IN COMMITTEE BY ONE
REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH WORK AND I
DEMOCRAT THERE WAS A POINT
WAS HELD UP IN COMMITTEE BY ONE
WHERE I ACTUALLY HAD CALLED THE
DEMOCRAT THERE WAS A POINT
SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE AND SAID
WHERE I ACTUALLY HAD CALLED THE
I'M COMING TO LANSING IN MY
SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE AND SAID
UTERUS COSTUME.
I'M COMING TO LANSING IN MY
I NEED I WOULD NOT SEE THIS
UTERUS COSTUME.
MOVE BY THE COMMITTEE.
I NEED I WOULD NOT SEE THIS
SO YES, THE TENT IS WIDE BUT
MOVE BY THE COMMITTEE.
THERE ARE BETTER DANCE DEMS.
SO YES, THE TENT IS WIDE BUT
YOU CAN SEE THE WORK COME
THERE ARE BETTER DANCE DEMS.
THROUGH AND I AM SO PROUD
YOU CAN SEE THE WORK COME
OF ANN ARBOR FOR STEPPING UP TO
THROUGH AND I AM SO PROUD
THAT CHALLENGE TO NOT ONLY HELP
OF ANN ARBOR FOR STEPPING UP TO
OUR OWN CITY BUT OUR NEIGHBORS
THAT CHALLENGE TO NOT ONLY HELP
AND THE STATE AND HOPEFULLY IF
OUR OWN CITY BUT OUR NEIGHBORS
THINGS GO WELL NEXT MONTH HELP
AND THE STATE AND HOPEFULLY IF
OUR COUNTRY GET GOING AN EVEN
THINGS GO WELL NEXT MONTH HELP
BETTER DIRECTION FOR FURTHER
OUR COUNTRY GET GOING AN EVEN
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL.
BETTER DIRECTION FOR FURTHER
>> COUNCILMAN RACKMAN, THANK
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL.
THE MAYOR.
>> COUNCILMAN RACKMAN, THANK
I WANTED TO ADDRESS THE PEOPLE
THE MAYOR.
THAT HAVE COME FROM ANN ARBOR
I WANTED TO ADDRESS THE PEOPLE
FOR PUBLIC POWER TONIGHT AND
THAT HAVE COME FROM ANN ARBOR
JUST YOU KNOW, I'VE READ THE
FOR PUBLIC POWER TONIGHT AND
EMAILS THAT HAVE COME IN.
JUST YOU KNOW, I'VE READ THE
I'VE LISTENED TO YOUR COMMENTS
EMAILS THAT HAVE COME IN.
TONIGHT.
I'VE LISTENED TO YOUR COMMENTS
I'VE LOOKED AT THE RFP VERSUS
TONIGHT.
KIND OF A MARKED UP VERSION
I'VE LOOKED AT THE RFP VERSUS
OF WHAT IT SHOULD SAY IN AND I
KIND OF A MARKED UP VERSION
HAVE TO SAY I STRUGGLE TO FIND
OF WHAT IT SHOULD SAY IN AND I
WHAT THE GAP IS BETWEEN THE
HAVE TO SAY I STRUGGLE TO FIND
CURRENT RFP AND WHAT IS BEING
WHAT THE GAP IS BETWEEN THE
SUGGESTED.
CURRENT RFP AND WHAT IS BEING
I REALLY DO BECAUSE I SEE THE
SUGGESTED.
STRANDED COSTS BEING ADDRESSED
I REALLY DO BECAUSE I SEE THE
IN HERE.
STRANDED COSTS BEING ADDRESSED
I SEE THE GOING CONCERN AND I
IN HERE.
AGREE WITH YOU.
I SEE THE GOING CONCERN AND I
I DON'T WANT TO SEE ANOTHER US
AGREE WITH YOU.
PAY FOR ANOTHER STUDY AFTER
I DON'T WANT TO SEE ANOTHER US
THIS AND VOTERS DO NEED TO BE
PAY FOR ANOTHER STUDY AFTER
INFORMED ABOUT THE POTENTIAL
THIS AND VOTERS DO NEED TO BE
COST.
INFORMED ABOUT THE POTENTIAL
AND FURTHERMORE I UNDERSTAND
COST.
THAT THE FIRST STUDY GAVE US A
AND FURTHERMORE I UNDERSTAND
VERY LARGE RANGE THAT WOULD BE
THAT THE FIRST STUDY GAVE US A
UNHELPFUL WHICH IS WHY WE NEED
VERY LARGE RANGE THAT WOULD BE
THIS NEXT STEP.
UNHELPFUL WHICH IS WHY WE NEED
BUT I REALLY FEEL THAT THE RFP
THIS NEXT STEP.
WAS RESPONSIVE TO ALL OF THE
BUT I REALLY FEEL THAT THE RFP
PUBLIC INPUT THAT WE GOT
WAS RESPONSIVE TO ALL OF THE
INCLUDING FROM YOUR GROUP.
PUBLIC INPUT THAT WE GOT
AND AGAIN AS I READ YOUR MARKED
INCLUDING FROM YOUR GROUP.
UP VERSION VERSUS WHAT WE HAVE,
AND AGAIN AS I READ YOUR MARKED
I DON'T SEE A BIG I DON'T SEE
UP VERSION VERSUS WHAT WE HAVE,
THE GAP SO JUST WANTED TO
I DON'T SEE A BIG I DON'T SEE
ADDRESS THAT AND APPRECIATE
THE GAP SO JUST WANTED TO
YOUR COMMENTS AND YOUR
ADDRESS THAT AND APPRECIATE
ENGAGEMENT ON THIS ISSUE.
YOUR COMMENTS AND YOUR
FURTHER DISCUSSION, FURTHER
ENGAGEMENT ON THIS ISSUE.
COMMUNICATION
WE HAVE BEFORE US
THE CONSENT AGENDA.
I HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE CONSENT TO GENDER
MOVE BY COUNCIL MCCONNELL
SAYING MY MARIAH PRIOR TO
DISCUSSION CONSENT AGENDA I
BELIEVE WE HAVE A STAFF
INTRODUCTION FOR SEE A SIX
MCNAMARA TEAM KENNEDY SHOULD BE
THERE WITH US THAT HE IS.
GOOD EVENING MAYOR AND COUNCIL
.
SO THIS IS FOR THE VIDEO WALL
FOR THE EOC WITHIN JUGGLING
SEVERAL DIFFERENT VENDORS FOR
THIS AND SO THIS IS JUST AN
OVERSIGHT THE WRONG QUOTE GOT
SUBMITTED TO COUNCIL AT THE
LAST MEETING.
SO THIS WAS THE ONE THAT WAS
INTENDED TO GO FORWARD THERE
WAS A QUESTION ON THE DISPARITY
BETWEEN THE TWO PRICES A LARGE
PART OF THIS IS THE SOFTWARE
THAT DRIVES IT.
ONE OF THE MOST NOTABLE ONES IS
WE CAN WITHOUT BUILDING A NEW
YORK WANTED TO BASICALLY HAVE
AS MUCH FUNCTIONALITY AS
POSSIBLE KNOWING THAT THIS IS
KIND OF A ONE SHOT OPPORTUNITY
FOR US FOR US TO HAVE THIS SO
THERE IS SOME ADDITIONAL
HARDWARE COSTS.
THERE'S A SIGNIFICANT SUPPORT
NETWORK BECAUSE WE'RE GOING
TO
HAVE TO CREATE THAT THE TALENT
IN-HOUSE FOR US TO BE ABLE TO
DRIVE
US BETWEEN EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT, POLICE AND FIRE FOR
OUR STAFF TO BE ABLE TO USE
THIS AND KNOWING THAT TRYING TO
BUILD THAT THAT THAT SUPPORT
NETWORK OVER THE FIRST COUPLE
OF YEARS OF THIS IS GOING TO BE
VERY NECESSARY AND THEN ALSO
THE ABILITY FOR US GETTING INTO
THIS NUMEROUS DATA INPUTS AND
THAT WE CAN BASICALLY KIND
OF CREATE PART OF THIS IS GOING
TO HAVE A SCREEN WALL AND HAVE
TOTAL CUSTOMIZATION OF HOW WE
WANT THIS TO DO THE LOWER PRICE
WAS KIND OF BASICALLY YOU COULD
SHOW STUFF ON INDIVIDUAL
SCREENS.
THIS WOULD ALLOW YOU TO EITHER
HAVE ONE IMAGE FULL WALL OR
MULTIPLE IMAGES OF VARIOUS
SIZES.
IT WOULD ALSO ALLOW US IF NEED
BE TO FOR FOR MEMBERS SUCH AS
COUNCIL THE MAYOR YOU WOULD BE
ABLE TO REMOTE IN AND ACTUALLY
SEE WHAT WE WERE SEEING TO THE
PREVIOUS VERSION WOULD NOT
ALLOW THAT OR THAT THAT OPTION
ONE I WOULD SAY WOULD NOT ALLOW
THAT AND ALSO TO SOMEONE
REMOTELY COULD ALSO DISPLAY
INTO THE EOC.
SO THERE YES, IT'S A YES IT'S A
SIGNIFICANT COST IN ERROR ON
OUR PART AND I APOLOGIZE ABOUT
THAT.
THERE'S SEVERAL OF US, MYSELF
INCLUDED THAT SHOULD HAVE
CAUGHT THAT AGAIN, WE'RE
JUGGLING FOUR DIFFERENT VENDORS
ON THIS AND ALSO WITH USE
OF THE FUNDING TRY TO MOVE THIS
AS QUICK AS POSSIBLE AND THAT
JUST KIND OF CAUSED US TO NEED
TO REGROUP I THINK SO MY MY
APOLOGIES FOR THAT BUT
HOPEFULLY THAT PROVIDES THE
CONTEXT THAT THE DELTA.
>> SO THANK YOU THANK YOU FOR
THE DISCUSSION THE CONSENT
AGENDA.
>> COUNCILOR HARRISON, I'D LIKE
TO SEE A11 C11 FURTHER FURTHER
DISCUSSION THE AGENDA FOR DENHA
.
>> I WAS GOING TO SPEAK ON C 11
SO I WILL HOLD THAT NOW FOR
THAT.
BUT I WOULD LIKE TO JUST
EXPRESS MY EXCITEMENT TO CTCA
FOR WHICH IS THE RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE THE CONSTRUCTION
CONTRACT FOR GEOTHERMAL DESIGN
AND INSTALLATION AT THE
COMMUNITY CENTER.
THIS IS WORK THAT WE'VE BEEN
DOING IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND
AT THE CENTER.
THEY'VE BEEN AN INCREDIBLE
PARTNER TO OUR OFFICES
SUSTAINABILITY AND INNOVATION
IN LEADING THE CITY IN SOME
OF OUR WORK AND I THINK THIS IS
GOING TO BE A REALLY GREAT
DEMONSTRATION PROJECT FOR HOW
WE CAN CONTINUE TO EXPAND
GEOTHERMAL ACROSS THE CITY,
CONTINUE TO MAKE SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY THE NORMAL HERE AND IN
OUR I'D LIKE TO PILE ON TO THAT
AS WELL AND JUST SAY THAT I'M
GRATEFUL FOR THE GREAT AND GOOD
WORK DONE BY BY OSSI IN
CONNECTION WITH WITH EXPANDING
THE GEOTHERMAL AND ITS FOCUS.
>> OF COURSE ON THE BRYANT
DISTRICT.
THIS YOU KNOW, IT WOULD BE AN
INOPPORTUNE BE AN OPPORTUNITY
LOST WERE I NOT TO MENTION THAT
THE GEOTHERMAL DISTRICTS AND
THE IMPLEMENTATION
OF GEOTHERMAL IS EXACTLY THE
SORT OF WORK OF THE INCREMENTAL
WORK THAT THE SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY UTILITY SORT OF A FIRST
STEP WITH RESPECT TO
UNIVERSALIZATION WOULD BE ABLE
TO ACCOMPLISH WERE THE VOTERS
TO PASS IT IN IN NOVEMBER.
THIS IS OF COURSE PROPOSAL A
AND THE GEOTHERMAL SORT OF WORK
BEING DONE AT BRYANT
UNINTEGRATED WORK IS THE SORT
OF THING THAT THE THE THE ISSUE
WERE REALIZED WOULD BE ABLE TO
SUPPORT FURTHER DISCUSSION
OF THE CONTENT AGENDA ON FEIWEL
WITH THE EXCEPTION OF SAY SEVEN
.
LET ME SAY THAT AGAIN ALL IN
FAVOR OF THE PERCENTAGES WITH
EXCEPTION C11 PCI OPPOSED THE
CONSENT AGENDA WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF C11 IS APPROVED
WITH 11 COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
THUS SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO
NONE OF THEM.
C11 RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A
COMMUNITY BASED CRISIS RESPONSE
PILOT GRANT CONTRACT WITH THE
MICHIGAN STATE POLICE TO ACCEPT
A GRANT IN THE AMOUNT OF FOUR
HUNDRED EIGHTY THREE THOUSAND
DOLLARS AND T APPROPRIATE
FUNDING OF SIX HUNDRED AND
THREE THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED
AND FIFTY DOLLARS APPROVED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER AND SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER FOR DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE GIVE C11
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
PECULIAR.
I BELIEVE THAT WE HAVE A STAFF
INTRO BUT BEFORE THAT STAFF
INTRO HAPPENS I WOULD LIKE TO
THANK STAFF FOR THEIR TIRELESS
EFFORTS AND WORKING WITH
BASICALLY WORKING TO SHORE UP
THIS CONTRACT AND MAKE SURE
THAT IT ALIGNS WITH OUR VALUES
HERE IN THE CITY BANABA AND
WITH THIS COUNCIL I HAVE I DO
HAVE A FEW QUESTIONS.
THEY MIGHT BE A LITTLE BIT
REDUNDANT BECAUSE I SUBMITTED
QUITE A FEW DID ITEM QUESTIONS
BUT FOR THE PURPOSE OF THOSE
THAT ARE WATCHING AND HAVE NOT
HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO READ THE
AGENDA ITEM QUESTIONS.
>> I DO HAVE A FEW BUT THERE A
STAFF MEMBER ABLE TO ANSWER
QUESTIONS.
>> MR. TONY I'M HERE I'M HERE
FOR THAT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
COUNCILOR HARRISON.
SO THE FIRST QUESTION I HAVE IS
I'D LIKE TO KNOW HOW LONG AND
HOW MANY MONTHS DID STAFF SPEND
NEGOTIATING THIS CONTRACT WITH
MICHIGAN'S STATE POLICE ROUGHLY
.
ROUGHLY WE WERE BACK IN FORCE I
WOULD SAY ABOUT FIVE MONTHS TO
MULTIPLE MEETINGS IN ORDER TO
FIND A RESOLUTION.
WE'RE VERY GRATEFUL FOR THE
CONTINUOUS EFFORTS
OF REPRESENTATIVE MORGAN WHO
PARTICIPATED WITH US THE NUMBER
OF SESSIONS WE AT ONE POINT
DIDN'T THINK WE WOULD BE ABLE
TO GET SUCCESSFULLY THROUGH
NEGOTIATIONS BUT ARE VERY
PLEASED THAT WE WERE ULTIMATELY
ABLE TO ACHIEVE THAT.
AND TO YOUR POINT, COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON LAND WITH GRANT
LANGUAGE THAT'S CONSISTENT WITH
THE VALUES OF THE CITY COUNCIL
.
>> THANK YOU.
CAN I ASK ANOTHER YOU'VE GOT 50
SECONDS.
OK, I GET CAN STAFF CLARIFY HOW
THEY ENSURE THE PRIVACY
PROTECTIONS FOR RESIDENTS WERE
PRIORITIZED DURING THE DRAFTING
OF THE AGREEMENT WITH THE
MICHIGAN STATE POLICE?
>> THERE ARE WELL FIRST IT IT
IS APPROPRIATE TO SAY THAT IN
MEETING WITH STATE OFFICIALS
INCLUDING ATTORNEYS FROM THE
STATE AND AGAIN REPRESENTATIVE
MORGAN'S OFFICE WAS PRESENT
DURING THE FINAL NEGOTIATION
THERE IS NO INTENT FROM THE
STATE TO DO ANY KIND OF RECORDS
VIEW THAT WOULD INVADE THE
PRIVACY OF ANN ARBOR RESIDENTS
FROM A TECHNICAL STANDPOINT WE
WILL HAVE THE ABILITY TO REDACT
ANYTHING THAT SHOULD NOT BE
REVIEWED.
WE ARE PROPOSING TO USE A
SOFTWARE THAT WOULD ENABLE US
TO DO THAT.
WE ALSO HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
REVIEW WITH THE NAKED EYE WHAT
THE RECORDS ARE SAYING BEFORE
THEY ARE MADE AVAILABLE FOR
INSPECTION AND AND JUST TO MAKE
CLEAR FOR THE PUBLIC THE GRANT
ITSELF IS GOING TO ENABLE US TO
BRING TO ADDITIONAL SOCIAL
WORKERS INTO SUPPORTIVE
CONNECTIONS TO FURTHER THE WORK
OF THAT OFFICE.
THE GRANT RULES ALLOW FOR
SUPPORTING A NEW PROGRAM OR AN
EXISTING PROGRAM AND THAT IS
WHAT WE INTEND TO DO.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION OF C11
COUNCILOR HARRISON, YOU'RE BACK
ON.
>> THANK YOU.
ADMINISTRATOR DOWNIE.
MY NEXT QUESTION IS WHAT STEPS
HAVE STEP TAKEN OR HAVE THEY
TAKEN STEPS TO ENSURE THAT THE
CRISIS RESPONSE PROGRAM WILL BE
ALIGNED WITH COMMUNITY VALUES
AND EXPECTATIONS ESPECIALLY IN
TERMS OF MINIMIZING LAW
ENFORCEMENT INVOLVEMENT, THE
CREATION OF AN ENORMOUS BOX
INITIATIVE IS SOMETHING THAT WE
ARE WORKING AT WORKING RIGHT
NOW FROM THE GROUND UP WE ARE
IN THE INFORMATION GATHERING
PHASE.
WE'VE INDICATED THAT IT'S MORE
IMPORTANT FOR US TO BE RIGHT
ABOUT WHAT IS BROUGHT FORWARD
VERSUS TO DO IT WITH QUICKNESS
.
WE ARE LOOKING AT DIFFERENT
MODELS THAT ARE OPERATIONAL
AROUND THE COUNTRY.
IN FACT I WILL BE TRAVELING TO
DURHAM, NORTH CAROLINA IN A FEW
WEEKS TO VISIT A PROGRAM THERE
THAT DISPATCHES THREE PERSON
TEAMS FOR PEOPLE WHO ARE IN
CRISIS THAT INCLUDES IMAGES
CLINICIAN AND A PEER SUPPORT
PROFESSIONAL.
WE DO NOT INTEND TO BRING
FORWARD AN INITIATIVE THAT IS
RUN BY THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
>> HOWEVER, FULL TRANSPARENCY
WHAT WE ARE SEEING IN OTHER
PLACES IS THERE ARE TIMES
PERHAPS WHEN A COLERIDGE'S
MODEL IN OTHER CITIES IS BEING
UTILIZED
20 SECONDS.
THANK YOU.
LAST QUESTION WHAT RESOURCES
SUPPORT WILL STAFF PROVIDE TO
ENSURE SMOOTH COORDINATION
BETWEEN DEPARTMENTS, COMMUNITY
PARTNERS AND THE CRISIS
RESPONSE TEAM?
I'M SORRY, COULD YOU REPEAT
THAT LAST?
>> WHAT RESOURCES OF SUPPORT
WILL STAFF PROVIDE TO ENSURE
SMOOTH COORDINATION BETWEEN
DEPARTMENTS COMMUNITY PARTNERS
AND THE CRISIS RESPONSE TEAM?
WE ARE IN COLLABORATION AND
DISCUSSING WITH MULTIPLE
STAKEHOLDERS IN THE COMMUNITY
WE HAVE A DISCUSSION THAT IS
BEING SCHEDULE RIGHT NOW THAT
WOULD INVOLVE THE CITY
DISCUSSING WITH THE SCHOOL
OF SOCIAL WORK OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
WE ARE ALSO GOING TO HAVE
REPRESENTATION AND ACTUALLY THE
CEO OF MICHIGAN MADSEN TO HELP
US THINK THROUGH THE BEST
APPROACH FOR US TO TAKE IN ANN
ARBOR AND THE LAST POINT I'LL
MAKE IS ANY MODEL THAT WE ARE
CONSIDERING WOULD BE BROUGHT IN
FRONT OF CITY COUNCIL FOR FULL
DISCUSSION AND TO BE HELD UP IN
THE LIGHT OF DAY FOR THE
COMMUNITY TO SEE BEFORE WE
ENACT ANYTHING.
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER I
DENHA THANK YOU MAYOR.
AND I JUST WANTED TO SPEAK
BRIEFLY ABOUT THIS LONG PROCESS
THAT WE JUST HEARD ABOUT AND I
THINK ALSO TO JUST EXPRESS TO
THE COMMUNITY HOW MUCH THOUGHT
AND WORK WENT INTO THIS.
OBVIOUSLY YOU HEAR SOME OF THE
QUESTIONS THAT COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON WAS ASKING AND WE
HEARD THAT STAFF WAS WORKING
WITH STATE LEADERS ON THIS FOR
UP TO FIVE MONTHS.
THIS IS THIS IS A GRANT
OF NEARLY FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND
DOLLARS TO TO INVEST IN
COMMUNITY CRISIS BASED RESPONSE
PROGRAMS AND IT'S MONEY THAT
CAME OUT OF THE MICHIGAN STATE
POLICE BUDGET.
IT'S MONEY THAT OTHERWISE WOULD
BE GOING TO THE MICHIGAN STATE
POLICE TRADITIONAL WORK AND AND
THIS WAS THIS WAS MONEY THAT
STATE REPRESENTATIVE MORGAN WAS
ABLE TO TO WORK AT THE STATE
LEVEL TO ENSURE THAT WE COULD
INVEST BACK INTO OUR COMMUNITY
AND TO THE TYPE OF VALUES BASED
POLICING THAT WE WANT TO SEE
HERE IN OUR COMMUNITY AND OTHER
COMMUNITIES AROUND THE STATE.
YOU KNOW, MY UNDERSTANDING IS
THAT OTHER COMMUNITIES DIDN'T
ASK NEARLY AS MANY QUESTIONS AS
WE DID AND THEY PRETTY MUCH
JUST ACCEPTED THIS MONEY AS IT
CAME IN THE DOOR.
BUT WE HAD A LOT OF QUESTIONS
ABOUT IT BECAUSE WE WANTED TO
MAKE SURE THAT IT MET OUR
COMMUNITIES VALUES AND THAT WE
WERE ABLE TO DO WITH IT WHAT WE
SEE IS APPROPRIATE IN TERMS
OF COMMUNITY BASED CRISIS
RESPONSE RATHER THAN WHAT THE
STATE POLICE WOULD WANT US TO
SPEND THIS MONEY ON.
AND SO I JUST WANT TO EXPRESS
MY GRATITUDE TO STAFF WHO DID
GO BACK AND FORTH WITH MICHIGAN
STATE POLICE AND IN PARTNERSHIP
WITH STATE REPRESENTATIVE
MORGAN, HIS OFFICE FOR A PERIOD
OF FIVE MONTHS TO MAKE SURE WE
GOT THIS TO A PLACE WHERE WE
COULD INVEST IT WHERE WE FEEL
IT WILL DO GOOD WORK HERE IN
OUR COMMUNITY.
AND I ALSO JUST REALLY WANT TO
EXPRESS MY GRATITUDE TO STATE
REPRESENTATIVE MORGAN AND THIS
THIS IS A GREAT EXAMPLE OF HOW
IMPORTANT IT IS TO HAVE ELECTED
LEADERS AT THE STATE LEVEL WHO
WILL GO TO BAT FOR THEIR
COMMUNITIES AND WHO WILL
CONTINUE WORKING ALONGSIDE
THEM.
HE DIDN'T JUST GET THIS MONEY
FOR OUR COMMUNITY BUT THEN HE
AND HIS STAFF CONTINUE TO JOIN
THOSE MEETINGS WITH OUR STAFF
AND MICHIGAN STATE POLICE TO
NEGOTIATE THE DETAILS FOR THE
ENTIRETY OF THAT TIME.
AND SO I KNOW THAT THIS STARTED
WITH FORMER DEPUTY CITY
ADMINISTRATOR RON FOURNIER
BEING IN THOSE MEETINGS AND
THEN ULTIMATELY MR. DE HE GOT
INVOLVED HIMSELF AFTER AFTER
JOHN TOOK ANOTHER ROLL OUTSIDE
OF THE CITY.
IT WENT THROUGH MULTIPLE STAFF
MEMBERS AND JASON'S OFFICE AND
SO THERE WAS A LOT OF TIME WORK
AND ENERGY THAT WENT INTO THIS.
AND SO I AM GRATEFUL THAT WE'VE
GOTTEN TO THIS PLACE AND JUST
WANT TO THANK EVERYONE INVOLVED
SO THAT WE CAN INVEST THIS INTO
OUR COMMUNITY BASED CRISIS
RESPONSE PROGRAMS.
>> THANKS.
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA GAVE SOME REALLY
GOOD BACKGROUND AND THAT'S
PARTLY BECAUSE THIS ITEM CAME
TO TO THE COUNCIL
ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE A
COUPLE OF TIMES AND SO MYSELF
AND MEMBERS OF THAT COMMITTEE
WERE ABLE TO TO ASK SOME
QUESTIONS AND GIVE SOME
FEEDBACK.
AND I THINK THE IMPORTANT THING
THAT I WANT THE COMMUNITY TO
KNOW ABOUT THIS PROGRAM IS THIS
THIS GRANT WHILE COMES FROM THE
MICHIGAN STATE POLICE, IT IS
NOT A PROGRAM DESIGNED BY THE
MICHIGAN STATE POLICE.
THIS WILL SUPPLEMENT AN
EXISTING PROGRAM AS
ADMINISTRATOR TO SAID BUT YOU
KNOW, SUPPORTIVE CONNECTIONS IS
A PROGRAM DESIGNED BY ANN ARBOR
FOR ANN ARBOR AND THE REPORTS
I'VE HEARD FROM THE COMMUNITY
THE FACT THAT SOCIAL WORKERS
ARE ABLE TO HELP PEOPLE WHERE
THEY ARE, YOU KNOW, WHETHER
THAT'S STAYING IN THE AREA
WE'RE STAYING NEAR THE DATA
CENTER OR STAYING OR
IMMEDIATELY UPON EXIT FROM JAIL
OR THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE YOU
KNOW, EVEN IN COURTROOMS I'VE
HEARD FROM JUDGES OUR SOCIAL
WORKERS ARE PROVIDING THAT
SUPPORT.
SO THIS GRANT MONEY IS REALLY,
TRULY MEETING THAT IS TRULY
COMMUNITY DESIGNED AND IT'S IT
WOULD BE A MISNOMER TO THINK
OF IT AS AN EXTENSION OF THE
POLICE.
AND I REALLY APPRECIATE ALL THE
WORK FROM STAFF AND ALSO THE
WORK OF STATE REP. JIM JORDAN
BECAUSE HE UNDERSTOOD WHAT THIS
PROGRAM MEANT TO THE CITY AND
THE FACT THAT WE COULD NOT LET
YOU KNOW THIS THIS ALMOST YOU
KNOW, MORE THAN HALF A MILLION
DOLLARS GO TO WASTE.
>> SO THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
IT'S BEEN SAID.
BUT I'D LIKE TO FOR FOR
WHATEVER IT'S WORTH EXTEND
CONSIDERABLE THANKS TO TO THE
STATE POLICE OF COURSE FOR THE
THE GRANTS AND IN THE OUTSET
BUT THEN CRUCIALLY TO
REPRESENTATIVE MORGAN
SPECIFICALLY AND TO HIS STAFF
GENERALLY FOR THEIR WORK THAT
THEY HAVE PERFORMED ON BEHALF
OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND
WITH OUR OUTSTANDING
OUTSTANDING STAFF TO GET THIS
OVER THE FINISH LINE.
IT IT WAS A LOT OF WORK BUT IT
WAS GOOD WORK AND YOU KNOW, WE
ARE IN MORGAN WE'RE IN GOOD
HANDS FOR THE DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POST IT IS APPROVED.
WE NOW COME TO A SET OF PUBLIC
HEARINGS, PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
A SPECIFIC ITEM ON THE AGENDA.
THAT IS TO SAY THE SPECIFIC
SUBJECT MATTER OF THE PUBLIC
HEARING TO SPEAK AT A PUBLIC
HEARING ONE NEED NOT HAVE
SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE.
BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING THAT IS
TO SAY THE AGENDA ITEM TO WHICH
THE PUBLIC HEARING RELATES
SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES BOTH
HERE AND ONLINE WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY WHEN
THIRTY SECONDS ARE REMAINING
AND WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED,
WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED,
PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST PUBLIC HEARING TODAY
IS PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER ONE AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION FIVE
ONE SIX TWO THREE AND FIVE ONE
SEVEN SEVEN OF CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE FIVE DEVELOPMENT CODE OF
TITLE FIVE OF THE CODE OF THE
CITY THAT HARBOR.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
PAUL GO AHEAD.
>> HI GOOD EVENING KIRK
WESTFALL THIRTY FIVE OR FIVE
CHARTER PLACE I WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS THE BUNDLE
OF AMENDMENTS THAT YOU ARE
CONSIDERING TONIGHT HAVING TO
DO WITH DC ONE.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT I'VE
BEEN INTERESTED WELL IN FOR
YEARS BUT STARTING SIX MONTHS
AGO IN RESPONSE TO A PROPOSAL
DOWN AT STATE AND EISENHOWER
STAFF AND PLANNING COMMISSION
HAVE BEEN WRESTLING OVER SOME
OF THESE PROPOSED TWEAKS TO DC
ONE, SOME OF WHICH I THINK ARE
WARRANTED, A COUPLE OF WHICH I
I THINK WOULD BE A MISTAKE.
ONE HAS TO DO WITH LOOSENING
THE RESTRICTIONS ON CURB CUTS.
>> THE NUMBER CURB CUTS ALLOWED
AND WHILE I CAN APPRECIATE THE
INSTINCT TO MAKE A CITY WIDE
STANDARD, I THINK TRANSIT
CORRIDORS ARE AND SHOULD BE
TREATED YOU KNOW, ESPECIALLY
GIVEN THAT WE'RE PUTTING SO
MUCH INVESTMENT INTO THESE
COURT DOORS AND MAKING IT
POSSIBLE FOR PEOPLE TO LIVE
WITHOUT CARS AND PRESUMABLY
PARTICULARLY VISION ZERO I
THINK INCREASING THE NUMBER
OF CURB CUTS TO SORT OF DUMB
DOWN TO THE EXISTING CITYWIDE
STANDARD WOULD BE A MISTAKE AND
IF ANYTHING WE SHOULD LEAVE
THIS IN PLACE AND RAISE THE
STANDARD FOR THE REST OF THE
CITY TO MATCH TO SEE ONE.
IT'S A COMMON COMPLAINT THAT
THERE'S TOO MANY CUTS IN OUR
EXISTING CORRIDORS AND HERE WE
HAVE A CHANCE TO MAKE SURE THAT
THEIR CONSOLIDATED I THINK THE
BUT PERHAPS THE MOST ALARMING
PART OF THE CHANGES HAS TO DO
WITH THE BUILDING FRONTAGE
REQUIREMENT.
IT'S CURRENTLY AT 70 PERCENT.
THIS KIND OF MATCHES WHAT I'VE
SEEN IN THE LITERATURE.
>> IT'S CONSIDERED BEST
PRACTICE.
IT APPEAR THAT THIS WAS A BIT
OF A CHALLENGE WITH THE THE
OXFORD PROPOSAL GIVEN THAT THEY
WANTED TO PUT IN SOME CLAUSES
AND SO ON AND PERHAPS THAT CAN
BE LOOKED AT WHERE EITHER
THROUGH EITHER THROUGH THE ZIBA
OR THROUGH TWEAKING THE
STANDARD TO ALLOW MAYBE FOR
SOME LIMITED PUBLIC AREAS
ALTHOUGH THOSE ARE REALLY
CHALLENGING TO DO YOU PERHAPS
THIS COULD BE RATCHETED DOWN A
TINY BIT BUT I I I'M KIND
OF CONFUSED AS TO WHY THE
PROPOSAL WOULD BE TO DISPATCH
WITH BUILDING FRONTAGE
REQUIREMENTS ALL TOGETHER GIVEN
THE FACT THAT THIS COULD ALLOW
VERY LOW DENSITY JUST THIRTY
SECONDS BUILDINGS TO BE
ORIENTED NOT TO THE STREET BUT
SORT INTERNALLY WITH A LARGE
PARKING LOT THE SIZE OF THE
BUILDING LINING THE STREET
WHICH SORT OF DEFEATS THE WHOLE
PURPOSE OF WALKABILITY AND
SAFETY AND PEDESTRIAN
ORIENTATION.
SO I WOULD REQUEST THAT YOU
HAVE PLANNING PERMISSION TO
TAKE A CLOSE THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE WHO'D LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
>> I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER
CALLERS ON LINE
SO SEE NO ONE
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
PUBLIC HEARING NO TO AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION FIVE
ONE EIGHT FIVE TWO TWO FIVE
THAT TWO NINE FIVE UP THREE
SEVEN OH CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE OF
TITLE FIVE THE CODE OF THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WE'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
MAYOR, I DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS
ON LINE FOR THIS HEARING
.
SEE NO ON THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED PUBLIC ENEMY NUMBER
THREE, AN AUDIENCE CHECK
CHAPTER ONE ZERO TWO HOME
ENERGY RATING DISCLOSURE
OF TITLE EIGHT.
>> IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
COME ON UP.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
CONFOUNDERS CITY ADMINISTRATOR,
CITY CLERK.
MY NAME IS TOM WALLER.
I'M A COLEBROOKE WITH THAT
PROPERTY.
CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL REAL
ESTATE LOCATED AT NINE ONE TWO
NORTH MAIN STREET IN MY TWENTY
TWO YEARS AS A REAL ESTATE
PROFESSIONAL RESPONSIBLE FOR
ASSISTING A FAIR NUMBER OF ANN
ARBOR CITIZENS MOVE INTO AND
OUT OF THE CITY THE LAST SIX
MONTHS THE HOME ENERGY RATING
DISCLOSURE ORDINANCE HEARD
BEING IMPLEMENTED HAS BEEN A
CHALLENGE.
I'M HERE TONIGHT TO ADD MY
OPINION TO THE PROPOSED CHANGES
TO THE SIX MONTH OLD HEARD
ORDINANCE AGENDA ITEMS PUBLIC
HEARING THREE AND B THREE WITH
AN ORDINANCE THIS YOUNG IN THE
CITY DEMANDING ADOPTION FOR
NEARLY ALL RESIDENTIAL REAL
ESTATE SALES, IT'S PREMATURE TO
TINKER WITH THE EXECUTION THIS
ORDINANCE THERE'S BEEN A GRACE
PERIOD BETWEEN WHEN THE
ORDINANCE WAS PUT INTO EFFECT
AND WHEN FINES WOULD BE
ASSESSED.
WITHIN THAT TIME IT HAS BECOME
APPARENT THE CITY IS NOT
EFFECTIVELY COMMUNICATED WHAT
IT EXPECTS OF ITS HOME SELLERS
AS FIDUCIARY TO OUR SELLERS.
IT'S INCUMBENT UPON THE REALTOR
TO ADVISE OUR SELLERS AND
ASPECTS OF THE SALE OF THEIR
AND OUR HOME.
THIS INCLUDES THE HEARD REPORT
AND SPEAKING WITHIN OUR HOME
SELLERS THEY'RE NOT AWARE
OF THE HERD REQUIREMENT
INDEPENDENT OF THE REALTOR
THEY'VE CHOSEN TO WORK WITH FOR
THE CITY TO GET LARGER CITIZEN
ADOPTION THIS ORDINANCE AND
MEET ITS EIGHT TWO ZERO GOALS
FOR ZERO CARBON EMISSIONS
WORKING WITH THE REALTOR
COMMUNITY IS KEY.
THERE ARE TWO CHANGES IN
PARTICULAR THAT I BELIEVE TO BE
A PROBLEM WITH SWIFTLY
IMPLEMENTING THE HERD
ORDINANCE.
MY FIRST CONCERN WITH THE
CHANGES TO SECTION EIGHT THREE
NINE SIX ONE B TWO CHANGES HOW
A SELLER IS REQUIRED TO PROVIDE
HER REPORT TO A POTENTIAL
PURCHASER OF THEIR HOME THE
LANGUAGE BEING THAT THE SELLER
SHALL PROVIDE A COPY OF THE
HOME ENERGY SCORE REPORT TO ALL
PROSPECTIVE BUYERS WHO VISIT
THE DWELLING WHILE IT IS
PUBLICLY LISTED FOR SALE AT THE
TIME OF THE VISIT.
AND HOW IS THE CITY GOING TO
CONFIRM THAT THIS WAS
ACCOMPLISHED?
WILL THERE BE A STAFF MEMBER AT
EACH LISTING FOR EACH SHOWING
TO A BUYER?
THE SECOND CHANGE I AM
CONCERNED WITH IS IN SECTION
EIGHT THREE NINE SIX ONE S.
ELIMINATING ONE METHOD
OF COMPLIANCE THAT IS CURRENTLY
ACCEPTABLE FOR SIX MONTHS
REALTORS HAVE BEEN ADVISED THAT
UPLOADING A COPY THE HEARD
REPORT ON BEHALF OF THEIR
SELLER TO THE PROPERTY LISTING
IN THE MULTIPLE LISTINGS SYSTEM
AND PROVIDING A SCREENSHOT
OF THE UPLOAD WAS SUFFICIENT TO
PROVE COMPLIANCE.
SO THE TRAINING WE'VE BEEN
RECEIVING FOR SIX MONTHS WILL
NOW BE MADE OBSOLETE AND THE
LEVEL OF COMPLIANCE WE HAD IN
THOSE SIX MONTHS WILL
INEVITABLY GO DOWN AS WE CHANGE
THE COMPLIANCE RULES MET
ADOPTION A QUESTION I HAVE
ASKED SINCE THE BEGINNING THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ORDINANCE
IS IF THE ORDINANCE REQUIRES A
REPORT TO BE DONE BEFORE THE
TIME OF LISTING FOR SALE AND
THERE'S NO WAY TO CONFIRM A
BUYER HAD A HARD COPY MADE
AVAILABLE TO THEM AT THE TIME
OF SHOWING A LARGE CONCERN.
I HAVE IS WHEN EXACTLY IS THE
LISTING IN VIOLATION?
IS IT AT THE TIME OF LISTING
TIME OF SHOWING TO A
PROSPECTIVE BUYER OR WHEN THE
SALE IS COMPLETED?
IN CONCLUSION WITH THE LARGER
PERSISTENT QUESTION OF WHEN A
SELLER IS IN VIOLATION OF THE
ORDINANCE TWEAKING COMPLIANCE
WITH THE ORDINANCE AFTER ONLY A
FEW MONTHS IN PLACE WILL HAVE
THE ADVERSE IMPACT OF MAKING
COMPLIANCE LEVELS DROP NOT
INCREASE.
THE LOCAL REALTOR ORGANIZATION
HAS TRAINED LOCAL BROKERAGES
AND AGENTS ON THE ADOPTION
OF THESE PRACTICES WITH
ADOPTION OF THESE CHANGES THAT
TRAINING WILL GO OUT THE WINDOW
IN COMPLIANCE LEVELS WILL
DECREASE.
I THE COUNCIL WEIGH THE
IMPORTANCE OF ALLOWING MORE
TIME FOR BOTH IMPLEMENTATION
AND EDUCATION.
THE ORDINANCE URGE CITY COUNCIL
TO TABLE THESE PROPOSED CHANGES
TO THE ORDINANCE FOR AT LEAST
TWELVE MONTHS FROM
IMPLEMENTATION TO THE ORIGINAL
ORDINANCE.
THANK THANK YOU
MR. MAYOR.
COUNCIL MEMBERS MY NAME IS
PRESTON MILLS AND I'M A REALTOR
WITH REAL ESTATE ONE IN ANN
ARBOR.
WE'RE LOCATED FIVE FIVE FIVE
BRIARWOOD CIRCLE.
I'VE STARTED THE ANN ARBOR AREA
CITIZENRY FOR FIVE YEARS NOW
AND I'D LIKE TO ADD MY OPINION
TO THE PROPOSED CHANGES TO THE
SIX MONTH OLD ORDINANCE.
I CAN APPRECIATE THAT EDUCATING
IMPLEMENTING AN ORDINANCE LIKE
IT CAN BE LIKE HERDING CATS.
UNFORTUNATELY THE CITY STILL
HAS A LONG WAY TO GO TO
COMMUNICATE WHAT IT EXPECTS
OF ITS HOME SELLERS AS THERE IS
STILL WIDESPREAD CONFUSION
ABOUT THIS ORDINANCE WITHIN
REALTOR AND HOMEOWNER COMMUNITY
IN ORDER TO BE PROACTIVE OUR
AREA BOARD OF REALTORS HAS
SPENT A LOT OF TIME AND EFFORT
ON EDUCATING OUR MEMBERS ON THE
HEARD ORDINANCE TO HELP OUR
SELLERS STAY IN COMPLIANCE.
FOR EXAMPLE, WE HOSTED A LUNCH
AND LEARN WITH THE OFFICE
SUSTAINABLE ABILITY LAST FALL
AND WE HAVE ANOTHER ONE
SCHEDULED FOR NEXT WEEK ON
OCTOBER FIFTEENTH.
FURTHERMORE, MANY OF OUR LOCAL
BROKERAGES HAVE ASKED THE
OFFICE'S SUSTAINABILITY TO MAKE
A SPECIAL VISIT TO EDUCATE TO
ANSWER QUESTIONS.
MOST OF THE LOCAL BROKERAGES
ALSO DISCUSS IMPLEMENTING HEARD
AT THEIR WEEKLY EDUCATIONAL
MEETINGS.
THE POINT IS EDUCATION AND
IMPLEMENTATION TAKES TIME IS
EXTREMELY PREMATURE TO MAKE
ADDITIONAL CHANGES.
WE ARE STILL FAMILIARIZING OUR
POPULIST'S WITH THE FACT THAT
THIS AUDIENCE EVEN EXISTS
ESPECIALLY WHAT WITH WHAT NEEDS
TO BE DONE FOR SELLERS TO STAY
IN COMPLIANCE.
LASTLY, THE CITY AVERAGES ABOUT
TWENTY TWELVE HUNDRED HOME
SALES PER YEAR.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF REALTORS OR NAR ESTIMATES
NINETY THREE PERCENT OF HOMES
SOLD NATIONALLY ARE WITH A
REALTOR.
THAT MEANS OUTSIDE OF THE CITY
REALTORS END UP BEING THE
PRIMARY EDUCATOR FOR ANN ARBOR
SELLERS.
DOESN'T IT MAKE SENSE THAT WE
ARE CONSULTED AND INVOLVED IN
ANY PROPOSED AMENDMENTS MADE?
WE WOULD WELCOME THE
OPPORTUNITY TO PARTNER WITH
COUNCIL MEMBERS AND THE OFFICES
SUSTAINABILITY FOR FUTURE
MODIFICATIONS.
OUR GOAL WOULD BE TO EDUCATE
STREAMLINE THE REPORT PROCESS
AND ELIMINATE GRAY AREAS TO
INCREASE EFFICIENCY AND
EFFECTIVENESS FOR THIS
ORDINANCE COUNCIL MEMBERS IF
YOU ARE SERIOUS ABOUT
INCREASING COMPLIANCE WITH THE
ORDINANCE TO HELP MEET OUR TWO
ZERO GOALS, I URGE YOU NOT TO
MAKE ANY CHANGES AT THIS TIME
AND INSTEAD PARTNER WITH LOCAL
REALTORS ON ANY FUTURE PROPOSED
CHANGES.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK.
>> THANK YOU.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN
HOUSE WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS THERE
ANYONE ONLINE WHO'D LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
MAYOR, I DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS
ONLINE
SEE NO ONE THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED PUBLIC
HEARING NO.
FOUR RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE
THREE HUNDRED THE 312 TURON
REDEVELOPMENT BROWNFIELD PLAN.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
?
THANK YOU, MAYOR TAYLOR.
KEN GARBER, SECOND WORD AGAIN I
DON'T REALLY THINK OF THIS IS
BROWNFIELD LAND.
>> A BROWNFIELD PLAN IS WHEN A
DEVELOPER TELLS A COMMUNITY I'D
LIKE TO BUILD HERE BUT THIS
LAND IS CONTAMINATED AND MY
PROJECT ISN'T VIABLE UNLESS I
GET SOME HELP.
THEN WE DECIDE WHETHER THE
BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT ARE
WORTH CAPPING TAXES OR INSTEAD
HOLD OUT FOR SOMETHING BETTER
IN THIS CASE CONSTRUCTION IS
WELL UNDERWAY RIGHT ACROSS THE
STREET.
WE DON'T HAVE A CHOICE
OF GETTING THIS HOTEL ALSO
EQUAL NEGATIVE REVIEWS AND
APPROVES THE WORK PLAN NOT THIS
TIME.
NO STATE OVERSIGHT SO YOU CAN
DO THIS UNDER ACTUALLY DO WANT
AND THERE WAS SOIL
CONTAMINATION.
IT'S REALLY NOT A BROWNFIELD
PLAN IN MY VIEW.
IT'S A SEVEN HUNDRED FIFTY
THOUSAND DOLLAR CITY TAXPAYER
BAILOUT DRESSED UP AS A
BROWNFIELD PLAN.
THEY MIGHT STILL MAKE SENSE.
I LIKE THIS DEVELOPER, MR.
MARTIN AND I WANT TO HOTEL
PROJECT TO SUCCEED.
I KNOW HE'S UNDER A TREMENDOUS
AMOUNT OF PRESSURE.
HE'S TAKEN ON A LOT OF RISK AND
I SYMPATHIZE BUT TAX TAXPAYERS
ARE GOING TO BAIL HIM OUT.
HE HAS TO GIVE A LITTLE
SOMETHING IN RETURN AND WHAT
MIGHT THAT BE RIGHT NOW THE
PLAN IS TO HIT HOTELS, COMMON
SPACES TWENTY THREE THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET BY BURNING FOSSIL
GAS.
>> THAT'S WHY I RECOMMENDED
SITE PLAN DENIAL LAST YEAR
THERE WAS A QUESTION WHETHER HE
CAN SERVE IN ALL ELECTRIC
BUILDING BUT THOSE TALKS WERE
SEVERAL YEARS AGO.
SINCE THEN HE HAS DONE A
REBUILT RIGHT HERE AND SHOULD
HAVE CAPACITY.
>> SO IN RETURN FOR 750000
DOLLARS IN LOST TAX REVENUE WE
SHOULD ASK MR. VERNON TO GO.
ALL ELECTRIC HAS ALREADY ZERO
STIPULATES STAFF RECOMMENDS
APPROVAL EVEN THOUGH THE
PROJECT DOES NOT MEET THE CITY
BROWNFIELD POLICY STANDARD SITE
CONDITIONS MUST PREVENT A
REASONABLE RATE OF RETURN,
STAFF ARGUES WE SHOULD STILL
GRANT THE TIF OR WE'LL LOSE
SUSTAINABILITY FEATURES LIKE
THE EFFICIENT BETTAG AIR
CONDITIONING UNITS AND ROOFTOP
SOLAR.
>> FIRST OF ALL THESE FEATURES
ARE NICE BUT THEY'RE NOT
EXCEPTIONAL AND DO NOT OFFSET
GAS COMBUSTION.
>> SECOND, IT'S BACKWARDS
REASONING A FORM OF SELF
EXTORTION WE'D BETTER PAY OR
LOSE WHAT WE HAVE INSTEAD LET'S
ASK THIS DEVELOPER TO STEP UP
AND MEET OUR CITY'S CLIMATE
STANDARDS.
HE WANTS 750000 DOLLAR BAILOUT
NO PROBLEM GO ALL ELECTRIC.
FINALLY YOU MAY KNOW THAT THE
COUNTY BROWNVILLE AUTHORITY
APPROVED THIS PLAN LAST AUGUST
CONTINGENT ON CITY APPROVAL.
PORT AUTHORITY MEMBER JAMES
HARVEY SAID THIS QUOTE IT WILL
BE UP TO THE CITY TO SEE IF IT
MEETS THEIR STANDARDS FOR
SUSTAINABILITY.
THAT'S REALLY NOT OUR ROLE AND
QUOTE SO THE COUNTY PUT THE
BALL IN YOUR COURT.
THIS BUILDING DOESN'T MEET OSHA
STANDARD
.
YOU CAN DO SOMETHING ABOUT THIS
TONIGHT OR AT LEAST EXPLORE
THAT POSSIBILITY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WHO'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
MAYOR, I DON'T SEE ANY CALLERS
ON LINE
SEE NO ONE.
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED.
WE HAVE TO FORCE THE REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF SEPTEMBER 16.
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR MASSIVE
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THESE
MYTHS MOVE BY COUNCILOR WATSON
SECONDED BY COUNCILOR GHAZI
EDWYN DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES
FALL IN FAVOR POSED IT'S
APPROVED BY ONE AN AUDIENCE TO
AMEND SECTION FIVE ONE SIX
THREE AND FIVE ONE SEVEN SEVEN
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE OF TITLE FIVE
THE CODE OF THE SYSTEM OUR MOVE
BY COUNCIL DISH SECONDED BY
COUNCILOR BRIGGS DISCUSSION.
>> PLEASE BE ONE COUNCILOR IN
BRITISH.
THANK YOU.
SO THIS IS A SWEET AMENDMENTS
TO TAKE ONE AT A TIME TO
ADDRESS EACH ONE BUT I WANT TO
FOCUS ON TWO OR THREE THAT HAVE
GENERATED SOME QUESTIONS AND
CONCERNS AS WE HEARD EARLIER.
SO PLANNING COMMISSION
RECOMMENDED APPROVAL OF ALL
OF THESE THE GUIDING PRINCIPLE
BEHIND THESE CHANGES COME FROM
AN ARBOR'S RECENT ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT REPORT WHICH
EMPHASIZED TO THIS BODY IT VERY
NARROWLY TAILORED DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS WHETHER THEY ARE IN
THE UDC OR IN PD REQUIREMENTS
ARE OVERLY RESTRICTIVE OFTEN
UNNECESSARILY COMPLICATED AND
GENERALLY INCREASE THE COST
OF DEVELOPMENT IN THE CITY.
WE MIGHT VALUE SUCH PROVISIONS
.
THEY ACHIEVED SOME STRONGLY
FAVORED GOAL BUT AS WE SEE HOW
THESE WERE RESTRICTIONS AFFECT
PROJECT PROPOSALS ON THE GROUND
WE ARE REALIZING THAT THIS IS
NOT ALWAYS NECESSARILY THE CASE
.
I THINK THE APPROACH THAT'S
EXEMPLIFIED IN THE IN THE
REVISIONS THAT WE HAVE BEFORE
US IS TO TAKE GUIDANCE FROM
PARTS OF TOWN WE CONSIDER TO BE
PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY AND SERVICE
RICH AND WE NOTE THAT THESE DO
NOT ALWAYS CONFORM TO THE
SPECIFIC STANDARDS WE HAVE
CREATED FOR TAXI ONE.
MOREOVER, IN THIS CIRCUMSTANCE
WE HAVE THE BENEFIT OF A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THAT ACHIEVES MANY OF THE GOALS
THAT WE ENVISION FOR THE TAXI
ONE AND HAS PROVIDED US A REAL
TIME PROJECT EXAMPLE THAT
DEMONSTRATE THE CHALLENGE WITH
IMPLEMENTING SOME OF OUR
PROVISIONS SO THE QUESTION
OF CURB CUTS TAXI ONE DEPARTS
FROM THE WAY WE REGULATE CURB
CUTS ELSEWHERE IN THE CITY.
IT'S RESTRICTIVE BECAUSE IT IS
SIGNS CURB CUTS BY LOT WIDTH
WHEREAS ELSEWHERE IN THE CITY
IT IS PROPERTY FRONTAGE.
THIS IN A CASE ON TAXI ONE
WHERE WE MIGHT BE DEVELOPING A
TRANSIT CORRIDOR THAT HAS VAST
PARKING LOTS.
THE RESTRICTIONS THAT WE'VE
WRITTEN INTO THE TAXI ONE
ORDINANCE COULD MEAN THAT THERE
ARE ONLY TWO CURB CUTS FOR AN
ENTIRE VERY LARGE PROJECT
BECAUSE THERE ARE NO STREETS IN
THE PROJECT.
THE PROJECT WAS FORMERLY A
PARKING LOT.
WHEN IT IS DEVELOPED THEY WILL
HAVE PRIVATE ROADS RUNNING
THROUGH IT BUT THESE WILL NOT
COUNT AS STREETS.
IT HAS BECOME APPARENT THAT
LIMITING AN EXCEPTIONALLY WIDE
SITE TO JUST TO CURB CUTS IS
NOT REALISTIC.
SO THE CURRENT STANDARD
UNINTENTIONALLY ENCOURAGES LAND
DIVISIONS TO DIVIDE A SITE INTO
250 FOOT WIDE LOTS TO ACHIEVE A
WORKABLE NUMBER OF CURB CUTS.
STAFF FEELS THAT IT IS BETTER
OVERALL AND PLANNING COMMISSION
AGREES TO HAVE A RATE OF CURB
SUCH AS ONE CURB CUT FOR EVERY
100, 200 OR 600 FEET RATHER
THAN A FIXED NUMBER REGARDLESS
OF SIZE OR LENGTH WHICH IS WHAT
WE CURRENTLY HAVE.
SO THIS PROPOSAL IS TO REMOVE
THE TAXI ONE SPECIFIC STANDARD
AND APPLY THE SAME SAME
STANDARD A KID TO SORRY LOT
WITH THAT I'M SORRY.
RIGHT, RIGHT.
I'M SORRY SORRY I JUST
COMPLETELY MESSED THAT UP BUT
ANYWAY WE'RE GOING TO REMOVE
THE RESTRICTED STANDARD AND GO
WITH WHAT HOLDS IN THE REST
OF THE CITY.
I'M RUSHING BECAUSE THERE'S SO
MANY I WANT TO REMEMBER NOT I
DON'T WANT TO SPEAK ABOUT
BUILDING FRONT UNLESS I GET
ANOTHER CHANCE.
>> CARLESIMO BRIGS THANKS SO AS
COUNTERMAN BRITISH NOTES
ALTHOUGH WE ARE TRYING TO
ADDRESS POINTS OF OUR CODE THAT
ARE OVERLY RESTRICTIVE, WE DO
WANT TO KEEP ELEMENTS THAT ARE
CENTRAL TO OUR GOALS.
>> SO PART OF THE STATED INTENT
OF THK ONE AS PART OF OUR
ORDINANCE ITSELF IS THAT
PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY DESIGNS ARE
CRITICALLY IMPORTANT TO THE
DISTRICT.
SO LIKE MR. WESTFALL WHO CALLED
IN, I HAVE SOME CONCERNS WITH
THE BUNDLE OF PROPOSED
AMENDMENTS.
MY CONCERN IS THAT WHEN PAIRED
TOGETHER THE MODIFICATIONS TO
TSHWANE ARE PRETTY DRASTIC AND
THEY'RE IN CONFLICT WITH SOME
OF THE BASIC PRINCIPLES
WALKABILITY.
>> SO JUST DRAWING FROM THE
CONGRESS OF NEW URBANISM THEY
STRESS THEORTANCE OF ONE
SMALL BLOCK SIZE.
THEY NOTE THAT THE AVERAGE
BLOCK SIZE IN A WALKABLE PLACE
SHOULD BE NO MORE THAN SIX
ACRES, PREFERABLY TWO TO THREE
ACRES OR EVEN SMALLER.
ANOTHER ELEMENT IS BUILDING
FRONTIN BUILDINGS SHOULD FRONT
THE STREET.
THEY NOTE THAT THIS IS URBANISM
101 STREETS ARE HUMANIZED BY
BUILDINGS THAT FORM ACTIVE
URBAN FRONTAGES.
WE ALL KNOW THIS THIS IS THIS
IS A KEY ELEMENT OF WHAT WE'VE
BEEN TRYING TO WORK FOR WITH
NTC ONE.
SO THE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
WOULD ONE THERE'S MANY AND SOME
OF THEM RIGHT COMPLETELY
SUPPORT BUT SOME OF THE ONES
THEY DON'T ARE THEY WOULD
ELIMINATE THE REQUIREMENT TO
BREAK UP LARGE SITES INTO
BLOCKS AND THEY WOULD ALSO
ELIMINATE BUILDING FRONTAGE
REQUIREMENTS.
THEY ALSO ALLOW FOR SLIGHTLY
LARGER BUILDINGS, MORE CURB
CUTS AS COUNCIL MEMBER WAS
MENTIONING THOSE LATTER CHANGES
MODIFICATIONS BUT THE FIRST
ONES ARE ACTUALLY JUST PURE
ELIMINATION.
SO I HAVE A FEW QUESTIONS FOR
STAFF IF I COULD.
I THINK THIS IS ALEXIS IS GOING
TO RESPOND TO A FEW THINGS.
THANK YOU.
>> SO STARTING WITH BUILDING
FRONTAGE, THE AMENDMENTS
PROPOSED TO COMPLETELY REMOVE
BUILDING FRONTAGE REQUIREMENTS
GOING FROM 70 PERCENT TO NO
REQUIREMENT FOR BUILDING
FRONTAGE YET THE 70 FRONTAGE
REQUIREMENT I ASSUME THAT WAS
INITIALLY SUGGESTED BECAUSE
IT'S VERY CONSISTENT WITH BEST
PRACTICES.
LOOKING AT THE FORM BASED
CODE INSTITUTE, THERE'S A
RECOMMENDATION OF 80 PERCENT
FRONTAGE FOR URBAN CENTERS, 60
PERCENT IN AN URBAN ZONE.
MICHIGAN MUNICIPAL LEAGUE, A
REDEVELOPMENT GUIDELINE
GUIDELINES WERE DEVELOPED IN
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CONGRESS
FOR NEW URBANISM RECOMMENDS 70
PERCENT FRONTAGE.
SO I GUESS MY QUESTION IS WHY
WOULD WE WANT TO PERMIT LESS
THAN WHAT IS BEST PRACTICE?
WE I RECOGNIZE THAT THERE IS A
RECOMMENDATION WHEN YOU HAVE
FORMED BASED CODES TO HAVE THE
70 PERCENT BUILDING FRONTAGE
BUT THAT HAS PROVEN TO BE
DIFFICULT.
THIS IS ONE PARTICULAR PROJECT
OUR ONLY PROJECT THAT IS UNDER
REVIEW RIGHT NOW IS PROVEN TO
BE A LITTLE BIT DIFFICULT.
THERE WAS A REQUEST TO ADJUST
THE FRONTAGE REQUIREMENT BY
PETITION AND WE LOOKED AT IT
AND WE LOOKED AT EXISTING
DOWNTOWN BLOCKS.
WE LOOKED AT BLOCKS OUTSIDE
OF DOWNTOWN.
WE PRESENTED TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION THAT WITH A BUILDING
IF YOU KEEPING A BUILDING FROM
STANDARD YOU CAN PROBABLY OR
DOWN TO SIXTY PERCENT 60 OR 70
PERCENT DOES SEEM APPROPRIATE
IF YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE A
BUILDING STANDARD.
BUT WE ALSO FOUND THAT PLACES
THAT WERE DEVELOPED WITHOUT A
BUILDING FRONTAGE STANDARD BUT
WITH MINIMUM MAXIMUM FROM BACKS
AND WITH BUILDING MAXIMUM
DIAGONALS THAT THOSE PLACES
THEY MAY NOT MEET THE 60 OR 70
PERCENT BUILDINGS FROM THE
STANDARD OF DEVELOPMENT IS VERY
PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY, VERY STILL
VERY FRIENDLY TO PEDESTRIANS.
AND SO IT SEEMED THAT WITHOUT
BUILDING FRONTAGE STANDARD YOU
CAN STILL ACHIEVE ART, WE CAN
STILL ACHIEVE OUR GOALS AND
THAT MORE REQUIREMENTS IN THE
UDC MAY NOT NECESSARILY GIVE
BETTER RESULTS, LESS
REQUIREMENTS SEEM TO ACHIEVE
THE SAME DESIRED OUTCOMES AND
WE PUT IT FORTH TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND THEY THEY
RECOMMENDED THE ORDINANCE THAT
REMOVES THE BUILDING FROM
STANDARD FURTHER DISCUSSION
PERHAPS A DISH THEN WATSON I'LL
WAIT UNTIL EVERYBODY ELSE HAS
SPOKEN HAD A FIRST COUNCILOR
WATSON MR I THINK ONE OF THE
GOALS OF THE FRONTAGE STANDARD
WAS POTENTIALLY TO PLACE
PARKING BEHIND THE BUILDINGS SO
THAT THEY COULD BE ACCESSED
FROM A PEDESTRIAN COMING ON A
SIDEWALK DIRECTLY DIRECTLY INTO
THE BUILDING FROM THE STREET
RATHER THAN MAYBE HAVING TO
WALK THROUGH A BIG PARKING LOT
TO GET TO THE BUILDING IS IS
THERE SOMETHING WITHIN THE DC
ONE STANDARD THAT WOULD STILL
PROHIBIT, YOU KNOW, A NUMBER
OF PARKING SPACES IN FRONT
OF THE BUILDING BEFORE THAT
PORTION OF STREET ACCESS OR
DOES THIS ALLOW FOR SOME
OF THAT?
>> A COUPLE OF THINGS.
A COUPLE OF THINGS ADDRESSED
THIS IT IS ALREADY IN OR
CODE RIGHT NOW.
IT DOESN'T MATTER IN OR OUT THE
DC ONE DISTRICT PARKING IS
PROHIBITED IN THE FRONT YARD
FRONT YARD IS DEFINED AS
BETWEEN THE BUILDING AND THE
FRONT LINE.
>> PARKING MUST GO TO THE SIDE
OR REAR OF THE BUILDING ANYWAY
ALL DISTRICTS THE ONLY
EXCEPTION WOULD BE IF YOU'RE ON
A CORNER LOT AND THEN YOU MEET
THAT STANDARD ON ONE OF THE
FRONT AND IN THE DC ONE
DISTRICT AS IN
MANY DISTRICTS
WE HAVE A MAXIMUM FRONT SET
BACK BUILDINGS MUST GO UP NEAR
THE STREET CLOSE THERE IN THE
U.S. ONE DISTRICT AND OTHER
DISTRICT SO THAT DISTANCE
BETWEEN THE PEDESTRIAN AND THE
FRONT DOOR OF A BUILDING
REMAINS UNCHANGED EVEN WITHOUT
A BUILDING FRONTAGE
REQUIREMENT.
THIS BUILDING FRONTAGE
REQUIREMENT SPEAKS TO THE THE
WIDTH OF A BUILDING AND HOW AND
HOW MUCH YOU DEVELOP ACROSS THE
SITE.
IT DOES NOT SPEAK TO THE DEPTH
.
SO WITH EVEN WITHOUT THIS
STANDARD THIS DOES NOT IMPACT
HOW FAR BACK A BUILDING IS SET
FROM THE PROPERTY AND THE DC
ONE DISTRICT REMAINS THE SIZE
LIMITATION ON A PARKING LOT.
PARKING LOTS ARE SIZED IN
PROPORTION TO THE WHATEVER
BUILDINGS ARE PROPOSED AND THE
SITE BASICALLY HAS TO BE
COVERED CANNOT BE COVERED MORE
WITH PARKING THAN WITH
BUILDINGS.
THAT'S A UNIQUE FEATURE OF THE
DC ONE DISTRICT AND THAT DOES
REMAIN IT IS POSSIBLE WITHOUT
THE BUILDING FRONTAGE
REQUIREMENTS OR EVEN WITH THEM
BECAUSE THEY ARE CURRENTLY SET
AT SEVENTY PERCENT THEN YOU CAN
GET A PARKING LOT NEXT TO A
BUILDING BUT THE DISTANCE
BETWEEN THE SIDEWALK THE FRONT
DOOR REMAINS UNCHANGED AND THE
DC ONE DISTRICT DOES HAVE THAT
SIZE LIMITATION THAT I
MENTIONED.
SO THE PARKING LOT IS NOT GOING
TO BE THE DOMINANT FEATURE OR
SO LARGE THAT YOU CANNOT CROSS
IT HORIZONTALLY.
>> THANK COUNTS OVER EICHMAN.
I'D LIKE TO ASK A QUESTION
ABOUT THE CURB CUTS ISSUE WHICH
IS A POINT WELL TAKEN.
WE KNOW THAT CURB CUTS
INCREASES CONFLICTS BETWEEN
PEDESTRIANS, PEOPLE BIKING AND
TRAFFIC AND MY UNDERSTANDING AS
I READ THIS IS THAT WE WERE
TRYING TO CREATE A SINGLE
STANDARD ACROSS RATHER THAN
HAVING A SPECIAL ONE FOR TAXI
ONE.
BUT I GUESS I'M NOT REALLY
UNDERSTANDING WHY WE WOULDN'T
BRING THE CURB CUT STANDARDS TO
BE MORE IN LINE WITH TAXI ONE
AS IT EXISTS NOW RATHER THAN
DEFERRING TO WHAT SEEMS LIKE AN
OUTMODED STANDARD FOR THE
NUMBER OF CURB CUTS.
I HEAR YOU ALTHOUGH I WOULD NOT
SAY THAT OUR CURRENT STANDARDS
CITYWIDE ARE THE PHILOSOPHY
OF THE CONCEPT IS NOW NOT
OUTMODED.
I THINK THE KEY PRINCIPLE HERE
IS THE T-3 ONE DISTRICT HAS A
FIXED NUMBER.
IT SAYS VERY SMALL SITES TWO
HUNDRED AND FIFTY FEET AND LOT
WITH ONE CURB CUTS PERIOD AND
THAT IS FINE.
THAT IS A LITTLE BIT IN LINE
WITH WHAT SITES SMALLER SITES
GET CURRENTLY BUT IT SAYS SITES
LARGER THAN TWO HUNDRED AND
FIFTY FEET AND LOT WIDTH YOU
GET TO PERIOD THERE IS NO WAIT
THERE.
I THINK THE KEY PIECE THAT THE
DC ONE DISTRICT IS MISSING IS
THE RATE AND THAT THERE IS NO
RECOGNITION FOR A SIGNIFICANT
AMOUNT OF FRONTAGE.
WE HAVE SITES THAT MIGHT KNOW
WHAT THIS MEANS IS IF A SITE IS
A HALF A MILE WIDE IN THE TWIN,
SOME FRONTAGE STILL ONLY GETS
TO CURB CUTS THAT YOU CAN'T
BUILD AS IF YOU WANTED TO.
YOU CAN'T BUILD A STREET GRID
WITH THAT YOU IT JUST GETS TO
THERE'S NO RATE AND SO I THINK
THE KEY PIECE FOR HERE IS WE
WOULD LIKE TO INTRODUCE A RATE
AND THEN RATHER THAN BUILD UPON
AND COMPLICATED WITH DIFFERENT
RATES, LET'S JUST USE THE SAME
RATE AS WE DO THE REST OF THE
CITY.
WE CAN DISCUSS WHAT THE RATE
MIGHT BE AND BUILD A SPECIFIC
ONE FOR A TAXI ONE.
BUT AS STAFF WE DO RECOGNIZE
IT'S A FAIRLY SORT OF A FAILURE
OF THE DISTRICT NOT TO HAVE A
SCALE OR FLEXIBILITY AT ALL.
A RATE IS IMPORTANT BECAUSE
SITE SIZES ARE DIFFERENT.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
.
SO HARD TO THINK AND TAKE NOTES
AT THE SAME TIME.
>> BUT I DID JUST WANT TO SAY
REGARD I THINK THAT MR. LEO HAS
REALLY VERY, VERY CLEARLY
EXPLAINED WHAT WE CAN ACHIEVE
WITHOUT A BUILDING FRONTAGE
STANDARD.
BUT I ALSO WANTED TO MENTION
THAT IF WE LOOK AT OUR DOWNTOWN
THIS WAS WHAT WAS PERSUASIVE AT
PLANNING COMMISSION WAS THE
STAFF PRESENTATION WITH SLIDES
AND PICTURES OF DIFFERENT
PLACES DOWNTOWN AND WHAT THE
BUILDING FRONTAGES WERE.
SO ZINGERMAN'S EVENT SPACE IS
100 PERCENT FRONT EDGE.
THAT MIGHT NOT BE YOUR FAVORITE
PLACE TO WALK IN THE CITY
ALTHOUGH IT'S DEFINITELY NOT
THE WORST.
THE ENTIRETY OF LIBERTY STREET
BETWEEN S FIRST AND S STATE
WHICH IS ONE OF THE NICEST
WALKS IN THE CITY.
THE TOTAL BUILDING FRONTAGE IS
84 PERCENT GOOD EXAMPLES IN THE
EXAMPLES THAT IS SHOWN IN THE
IN THE STAFF PRESENTATION
THAT'S ATTACHED TO OUR AGENDA
THAT WAS GIVEN TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION SHOW THAT GOOD
EXAMPLES RANGE FROM 40 TO 100
PERCENT.
SO I THINK I DON'T THINK THE
QUESTION IS WHETHER WE DON'T
CARE ABOUT STREET FRONTAGE.
I THINK THE QUESTION IS WHETHER
WE NEED A BUILDING FRONTAGE
STANDARD IN ORDER TO GET THE
KIND OF WALKABLE SCENARIO THAT
WE WANT.
>> AND AGAIN, I REALLY WANT US
TO REMEMBER THAT WE ALL SIGNED
OFF ON AND WE'RE DELIGHTED TO
RECEIVE AND AN ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT REPORT THAT TOLD US
THAT WE MAKE THINGS TO
COMPLICATED THAT COMPLICATED IS
NOT ALWAYS GOOD BUT THE
COMPLICATED IS ALWAYS EXPENSIVE
.
>> YEAH, THANK YOU.
AND I AGREE YOU KNOW THERE ARE
THERE ARE ELEMENTS WHERE I DO
THINK THAT WE SHOULD BE
SIMPLIFYING.
I THINK THERE ARE OTHER PLACES
WHERE WE WANT TO HOLD TRUE TO
OUR VALUES AS YOU NOTED.
>> SO ONE OF THE BEST SPOTS IN
THE DOWNTOWN IS 84 PERCENT
FRONTAGE.
THAT'S GREATER THAN THE 70
PERCENT WHAT WE HAVE IN THERE.
YOU KNOW, I COULD IMAGINE A
MODIFICATION WHERE WE WERE
SAYING OK, LET'S CREATE A
LITTLE FLEXIBILITY HERE.
LET'S DO SIXTY PERCENT.
BUT WHAT'S IN THE STAFF
PRESENTATIONS ARE THE HILLS
CROSSING IS A BUILDING FRONTAGE
OF FORTY FOUR PERCENT ON
WASHTENAW.
THAT WAS GREAT WHEN AT THE TIME
WE READ WHEN THAT BUILDING THAT
DEVELOPMENT WENT IN BECAUSE IT
WAS SO MUCH DIFFERENT THAN WHAT
WE HAD SEEN IN THE PAST.
BUT I DON'T THINK THAT TODAY
THAT WE WOULD CALL THAT WHAT
WE'RE ASPIRING TO.
I THINK WE'RE ASPIRING TO
SOMETHING BETTER THAN SOMEPLACE
LIKE ROBERT HILLS.
ANOTHER QUESTION THAT I HAVE
BECAUSE I THINK I'M GETTING A
LITTLE BIT CONFUSED AROUND THE
THE REMOVAL FOR THE RATIONALE
BEHIND REMOVING THE REQUIREMENT
TO BREAK LARGE SITES INTO
BLOCKS BECAUSE THIS SEEMS TO
REST PRIMARILY ON THE FACT THAT
STAFF BELIEVES IT'S DUPLICATIVE
BECAUSE THERE'S ALREADY A CAP
ON THE OVERALL SIZE
OF BUILDINGS.
BUT I'M I THINK THAT BUILDING'S
MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT
BUILDINGS FUNCTION DIFFERENTLY
THAN CITY BLOCKS AND SO I WAS
HOPING MAYBE YOU COULD
ELABORATE A LITTLE BIT ON THE
RATIONALE FOR REMOVING THAT
REQUIREMENT TO BREAK UP LARGER
SITES INTO BLOCKS.
THANKS TO THE REQUEST WAS THAT
WE HAD NOT THAT THE PETITION
SAID YOU WOULD SAY THAT YOU
HAVE TO BREAK UP SITES INTO
BLOCKS.
CAN YOU PLEASE DEFINE THE
BLOCKS SO THE REQUEST WAS TO
ADD A BLOCK AND IN ATTEMPTING
TO THEN DEFINE WHAT WE MEAN BY
BLOCKS, WE REALIZE THAT WE ARE
RUNNING AFOUL AND COMPLICATING
MATTERS WITH OUR LIMITATIONS A
NUMBER OF CUTS AND WITH OUR
BUILDING FRONTAGE REQUIREMENTS
WE ARE WE ARE SAYING THAT
BUILDINGS CAN ONLY BE SO WIDE
BUT THEY ALSO NEED TO SPEND THE
ENTIRE LOT WITH BECAUSE OF THE
FRONTAGE REQUIREMENT.
>> BUT YOU CAN'T PUT STREETS IN
THE MIDDLE OF THINGS BECAUSE WE
LIMIT THE NUMBER OF CURB CUTS
AND WE REALIZE THAT WE ARE
INHERENTLY GOING TO GET SORT
OF BLOCK DEVELOPMENT BY
LIMITING THE SIZE OF BUILDINGS.
WHAT WE ARE SAYING TO
DEVELOPERS IS YOU CAN HAVE A
LOT OF BUILDINGS ON YOUR SITE
BUT ALL OF THEM HAVE TO BE
RELATIVELY SMALL TWO FIFTY FEET
OR THREE HUNDRED FEET WIDE.
THEY NEED TO BE UP NEAR THE
STREET BECAUSE WE HAVE MAXIMUM
SET BACKS AND BEST BUY BY WITH
THAT THOSE REGULATIONS ALONE
WE'RE GOING TO GET THE CADENCE
AND RHYTHMS AND THE PLACEMENTS
THAT WE WANT THE BLOCK
REQUIREMENT DOES NOT PLAY
NICELY WITH A FRONTAGE
REQUIREMENT EITHER.
AGAIN, AS I MENTIONED, WE'RE
SAYING THAT YOU HAVE TO FILL UP
YOUR ENTIRE FRONTAGE BUT ALSO
BREAK IT UP INTO BLOCKS AND
HAVE SPACE FOR CIRCULATION IN
BETWEEN AND BECAUSE WE FELT
THAT JUST SAYING BREAK IT UP
INTO BLOCKS WITHOUT ANY
SUPPORTING STANDARDS OR
DIMENSIONS OR DEFINITIONS OR
ARTICULATION, IT'S NOT REALLY
ADDING ANY ADDING ANYTHING
EXCEPT WORDS WE CAN REMOVE THAT
LINE FROM THE CODE AND STILL
GET BLOCK STYLE DEVELOPMENT
WITH THE REMAINING STANDARDS.
>> THAT WAS OUR RATIONALE.
FURTHER DISCUSSION
ROLL CALL
VOTE PLEASE.
>> STARTING WITH ME MAYOR
TAYLOR.
YES, COUNCILOR ER YES
COUNCILMAN AKMAN NO COUNCILMAN
BRICKS NO CUSTOMER CARNEL NO
SMARTISH YES.
>> COUNCILOR HARRISON YES.
COUNCILOR SONG YES.
COUNCILOR WATSON NO COUNCIL OUR
DENHA YES.
>> COUNTERMARCH 01 YES.
MOTION CARRIES B TO AN AUDIENCE
TO AMEND SECTION FIVE ONE 5.2
TO FIVE TO NINE FIVE THREE
SEVEN OF CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT COVID HAD A
FIVE THE CODE OF THE CINEMA
NARBOROUGH MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA SECOND BY COUNCIL
REDISH DISCUSSION PLEASE BE TO
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA THANK YOU
MAYOR.
OTHERS MAY HAVE NOTICED THIS AS
WELL.
THERE ARE A FEW MINOR TECHNICAL
GLITCHES IN THIS SECTION SOME
OF THE SECTION NOS THROUGHOUT
THE ORDINANCE AND SO WHILE THE
ORDINANCE ITSELF REMAINS
LARGELY CLEAR AND
UNDERSTANDABLE, I WOULD LIKE TO
MOVE TO POSTPONE SO THAT THE
PUBLIC CAN SEE THE ORDINANCE
WITH THOSE RECTIFIED ON THE
ADVICE OF OUR CITY ATTORNEY IS
POSTPONED TO OUR NEXT MEETING
SECONDED BY COUNCILOR WATSON
DISCUSSION THE POSTPONEMENT I'M
ASSUMING THE CITY ATTORNEY
ADVISED IT ANYWAY ON FAVORITE
POST IT IS POSTPONED B THREE
ORDINANCE TO AMEND CHAPTER ONE
ZERO TWO HOME ENERGY RATING
DISCLOSURE OF TITLE EIGHT MOVE
BY COUNCILOR DISH SECOND I
CUTHBERT CORNELL DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF B THREE COUNTS
BRITISH.
>> I WOULD LIKE TOE TO
AMEND THIS ITEM.
I SENT THE AMENDMENT EARLIER TO
B TO C COCODRIE COULD YOU
FORWARD MY THANK YOU
TO PERHAPS
DESCRIBE THE AMERICAN SORRY.
>> ALL RIGHT SO I MOVE TO
STRIKE EIGHT COLON THREE NINE
SIX ONE POINT B POINT TO AND SO
IF YOU DID THAT THE AMENDED
ITEM WOULD READ SELLER HOME
ENERGY RATING DISCLOSURE
REQUIREMENTS ONE IN CONNECTION
WITH THE PUBLIC LISTING OF ANY
REAL PROPERTY DESCRIBED IN
SECTION THREE NINETY FOUR FOR
SALE THE SELLER SHALL OBTAIN A
HOME ENERGY SCORE REPORT FROM A
HOME ENERGY ASSESSOR PRIOR TO
THE PUBLIC LISTING B THIS IS
THE KEY PLACE PROVIDE A COPY
OF THE HOME ENERGY SCORE REPORT
TO ONE ALL LICENSED REAL ESTATE
AGENTS WORKING ON THE SELLERS
BEHALF AND TO THE DIRECTOR
PRIOR THAT MEANS THE DIRECTOR
OF ICI PRIOR TO OR AT THE TIME
OF THE PUBLIC LISTING SO IT
WOULD NO LONGER READ THAT ALL
PROSPECTIVE BUYERS WHO VISIT
THE DWELLING WHILE IT IS
PUBLICLY LISTED FOR SALE AT THE
TIME OF THE VISIT SHOULD BE
PROVIDED A COPY OF THE HOME
ENERGY SCORE REPORT.
>> IS THERE A SECOND SECOND BY
COUNCILOR KERNELL THE CUSTOMER
DESHU STILL THE FLOOR.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE COUNCIL RECOGNIZES THE NEED
FOR AND ARE GRATEFUL FOR THE
PARTNERSHIP OF REALTORS AND
IMPLEMENTING THIS HERD
ORDINANCE AND WE UNDERSTAND
THAT IT IT IS A IT IS A CHANGE
FOR THEM.
IT'S BEEN A CONSEQUENTIAL
CHANGE FOR THEM.
SO REMOVAL OF THE REQUIREMENT
TO PROVIDE THE REPORT AT THE
TIME OF THE VISIT RESPONDS TO
CONCERNS RAISED BY REALTORS.
WE HEARD FURTHER CONCERNS THAT
THE CHANGES IN SECTION EIGHT
THREE NINE SIX ONE CE WOULD
FULLY ELIMINATE ONE METHOD
OF COMPLIANCE THAT IS CURRENTLY
ACCEPTABLE.
I DON'T SEE THAT SO SOMEONE
WOULD NEED TO CLARIFY THAT FOR
ME.
THE REST OF THE CHANGES IN THE
RED LINE DOCUMENTS CLARIFY BUT
DO NOT CHANGE THE REQUIREMENTS.
IT HAS ALWAYS BEEN THE CASE
THAT THE REPORT MUST BE SHARED
WITH A REAL ESTATE REAL ESTATE
AGENT SHARED WITH OSSI AND
POSTED SO THAT IT IS AVAILABLE
TO MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC ON AT
LEAST ONE PUBLIC REAL ESTATE
REAL ESTATE LISTING AND IT MUST
REMAIN POSTED FOR THE DURATION
OF THE HOME BEING ON THE MARKET
SO THAT NOTHING HAS CHANGED
THERE IT IS SIMPLY CLARIFY THAT
IT MUST ALWAYS BE THERE AND
THEN IT MUST BE PUBLICLY
AVAILABLE.
I HOPE YOU WILL SUPPORT THE
AMENDED VERSION FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE AMENDMENTS AS
THE AMENDMENT FRIENDLY TO THE
BODY THEN AND IS FRIENDLY
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE MAIN
MOTION AS AMENDED
.
FOR MY PART I'M GRATEFUL FOR
THE CONVERSATIONS WHICH HAVE
GONE ON TO DATE WITH RESPECT TO
THE THE HEARD ORDINANCE I THINK
IT'S AN IMPORTANT AND CRUCIAL
STEP FORWARD THAT WE WE DO ASK
OUR SELLERS TO IDENTIFY FOR
POTENTIAL BUYERS THE THE NATURE
OF THE THEIR HOME ENERGY
RANKINGS.
IT'S HIGHLY USEFUL INFORMATION
AND IT IS OF COURSE TO USEFUL
FOR FOR SELLERS TO TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT THEY'RE SELLING
AND FOR BUYERS TO UNDERSTAND
WHAT THEY'RE BUYING.
THIS IS I THINK A GREAT GOOD
AND I'M GLAD THAT WE ARE MOVING
FORWARD FURTHER WITH RESPECT TO
THE ARTICULATION AS COUNCIL
MEMBER HAS INDICATED IN MY VIEW
THE THESE ARE NOT WHOLESALE
CHANGES BUT RATHER CHANGES IN
THE VEIN OF OF CLARIFICATION'S
AND REMOVALS OF POTENTIAL
LOOPHOLES.
>> FOR EXAMPLE, THE POSTING
OF A HERD SCORE A LISTING FOR
ONE DAY AND THEN THE IMMEDIATE
WITHDRAWAL OF THE HERD SCORE ON
THE NEXT DAY ENSURING THAT IT'S
CLEAR THAT THAT'S NOT THAT'S
NOT A FORM OF COMPLIANCE.
>> I APPRECIATE THAT WE ARE IN
EARLY DAYS WITH RESPECT TO THE
ORDINANCE THIS IN MY VIEW CUTS
CUTS BOTH WAYS.
THE FACT THAT THIS IS STILL THE
SUBJECT OF SUBSTANTIAL
EDUCATION EFFORTS MEANS THAT
CHANGES THAT ARE AFFECTED HERE
CAN BE INCLUDED IN THOSE IN
THOSE EDUCATION EFFORTS THEREBY
INCREASING I BELIEVE THE THE
EFFICIENCY AND SPREAD OF THE
HOME ENERGY SCORE DISCLOSURE
COUNCIL ARE I DID JUST WANT TO
TAKE A MINUTE APPRECIATE THE
COMMENTS THAT WERE JUST MADE.
I'LL KEEP MINE PRETTY TAILORED
TO THE COMMENTARY THAT WE
RECEIVE THE PUBLIC COMMENTARY.
I DO WANT TO THANK YOU FOR
COMING OUT TONIGHT WITH YOUR
PERSPECTIVE OF COURSE IS AS
REALTORS IS INVALUABLE AND IT'S
I'M ONLY COMFORTABLE MOVING
FORWARD WITH THIS BECAUSE I'M
AWARE THAT THE DIRECTOR
OF POLICY HAS HAD A NUMBER
OF CONVERSATIONS WITH THE
REALTOR ASSOCIATION ABOUT THESE
CHANGES AND REALLY SAT DOWN AND
WALKED THROUGH AND GOT FEEDBACK
AND TRIED TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS AND I DO THAT
PARTNERSHIP AS NECESSARY AS
WELL AND I WOULDN'T BE MOVING
FORWARD WITH THIS IF I DIDN'T
FEEL LIKE THAT FEEDBACK WAS
SOUGHT AND INTEGRATED.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
FAVRE POSED.
IT IS APPROVED.
SEE WHAT AN AUDIENCE TO ADD A
NEW SECTION NINE ONE FIVE FIVE
ONE OF CHAPTER ONE TWELVE
NONDISCRIMINATION OF TITLE NINE
OF THE CODE OF THIS INNER
HARBOR MOVE BY COUNCIL BECAUSE
HE HAD BEEN TAKEN BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON DISCUSSION PLEASE
SEE ONE BECAUSE THE OTHER ONE.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
SO I'D LIKE TO THANK EVERYONE
WHO HAS SHARE THEIR STORIES
BOTH TONIGHT BOTH AND VOICED
THEIR SUPPORT DURING THE LAST
CITY COUNCIL MEETING AS WELL
OVER THE PAST FEW WEEKS I'VE
ENGAGED WITH SEVERAL BUSINESS
ASSOCIATIONS TO CLARIFY
QUESTIONS AND I'M PLEASED TO
HAVE RECEIVED THE ENDORSEMENT
OF THE HURON VALLEY AFL-CIO
WHICH REPRESENTS A DIVERSE BODY
OF LABOR UNIONS ENGAGING ALL
STAKEHOLDERS IN THIS
CONVERSATION.
IT WAS VITAL TO MOVING THE
LEGISLATION FOR I ALSO WANT TO
EXPRESS MY GRATITUDE TO THE
COMMISSION ON DISABILITY ISSUES
AND THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
FOR THEIR COLLABORATION IN
CRAFTING BOTH THIS RESOLUTION
AND THE ACCOMPANYING ORDINANCE.
THEIR EFFORTS WERE INSTRUMENTAL
IN ENSURING THE HUMAN RIGHTS
AND DISABILITY JUSTICE VALUES
UNDERLYING THIS INITIATIVE WERE
EFFECTIVELY COMMUNICATED.
FINALLY, I WOULD LIKE TO EXTEND
MY PERSONAL THANK YOU TO DEPUTY
CITY ATTORNEY MARGARET RABABAH
WHO WORKED TIRELESSLY TO ENSURE
WE COULD PROCEED WITH THIS AND
BRING THE COUNCIL WITH THAT AND
AFTER DISCUSSIONS THE VARIOUS
STAKEHOLDERS I WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION TO AMEND THE
CURRENT RESOLUTION COURT
BHOJPURI IF YOU COULD FORWARD
THAT TO MY COLLEAGUES SHOULD
JUST GO AHEAD.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO ADD THE
FOLLOWING RESOLVE CLAUSE AS A
LAST RESOLVE CLAUSE IN THE
ORDINANCE OR I'M SORRY THE
RESOLUTION WILL APPEAR ON THE
RESOLUTION ORDINANCE.
OH NEVER MIND.
>> OK, THIS IS RETRACT THE
AMENDMENT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE HAVE NOW FOR THE SECOND IN
SO I THINK YOU'RE CLEAR OK OK
SO I'LL JUST PROCEED AND SAYING
THAT I HOPE MY COLLEAGUES CAN
JOIN ME IN SUPPORTING THIS
TONIGHT WE WOULD END UP BEING
THE FIRST CITY IN THE STATE TO
ENACT THE RIGHT TO SIT FOR ALL
OUR WORKERS FOR THE DISCUSSION
OF THE AMENDMENT ON PARTS
ORDINANCE KADENCE ORDINANCE
FURTHER DISCUSSION THE
ORDINANCE COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
YEAH.
>> SO WITH ALL WITH ALL
ORDINANCES THAT COME TOWARD
COUNCIL, THE QUESTION
OF ENFORCEMENT BECOMES AN
IMPORTANT ONE AND THE
ENFORCEMENT OF THE RIGHT TO SIT
ORDINANCE WOULD RESEMBLE
ENFORCEMENT OF THE EARLY
LEASING ORDINANCE IN THE SENSE
THAT PEOPLE WHO FEEL THAT THE
ORDINANCE ISN'T BEING OBSERVED
CAN FILE A COMPLAINT TO A CITY
COMMISSION IN THIS CASE THE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION WITH A
FORUM AVAILABLE ONLINE.
THE FACT THAT HRC WILL FOLLOW
UP ON THE COMPLAINT AND
DETERMINE ITS LEGITIMACY WITH
THE WITH THE ASSISTANCE OF THE
CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE GIVES AN
EXTRA LAYER OF REVIEW TO THESE
COMPLAINTS.
THE CITY DOES NOT HAVE LABOR
INSPECTION POWER WHICH IS
RESERVED TO THE STATE SO
BUSINESSES DON'T HAVE TO WORRY
ABOUT
BUT FOR THIS REASON, HRC
IS MORE LIKELY TO PLAY A
MEDIATING ROLE BETWEEN BUSINESS
MEMBERS AND COMPLAINANTS,
DISCUSSION AMONG HRC
COMMISSIONERS OR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC WILL ALLOW FOR COMMON
SENSE TO COME INTO INTO THE
PROCESS AND ALSO POTENTIALLY
ALLOW FOR BUSINESSES TO HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO OBSERVE THE
COUPLE OF MINUTES RIGHT TO SIT
AS ONE OF THE LIAISON'S TO HRC
ALONG WITH COUNCIL MEMBER.
I CAN VOUCH FOR THE FACT THAT
THE COMMISSION IS WILLING TO
TAKE ON THIS ROLE AND I'DE
TO THANK
THEM GHAZI EDWYN AND
THE CO-SPONSORS FOR HER
LEADERSHIP ON THIS RESOLUTION.
AND AS IAN ROBINSON, PRESIDENT
OF THE HEARING VALLEY AREA
LABOR FEDERATION SAID DURING
LAST PUBLIC COMMENT, WORKERS
SHOULDN'T BE DENIED WORK THAT
THEY CAN PERFORM WITH
ACCOMMODATION AND I THINK IT'S
AS SIMPLE AS THAT FURTHEREST
COUNCIL BRACKMAN I THINK AS I
SAID LAST TIME THIS WAS A TOPIC
THAT I DID NOT KNOW ANYTHING
ABOUT UNTIL IT APPEARED ON OUR
AGENDA.
AND SO THIS WAS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR ME TO LEARN MORE ABOUT
PRACTICES IN THE REST OF THE
WORLD.
>> AND YOU KNOW, AT FIRST
GLANCE LOOKING AT THIS I
THOUGHT WHAT WHAT PROBLEM DOES
THIS REALLY SOLVE?
I'M NOT REALLY AWARE OF A
PROBLEM THAT HAPPENS HERE BUT I
THINK YOU KNOW, AS I WAS
READING ABOUT THIS, YOU KIND
OF READ YOU KNOW, A PRACTICE
BECOMES THE WAY IT IS SIMPLY
BECAUSE THAT'S HOW IT ALWAYS
HAS BEEN.
AND IN EUROPE THEY LOOK ON US
AS BEING STRANGE FOR FORCING
CASHIERS TO STAND ALL DAY.
>> THEY DON'T UNDERSTAND WHAT
WE'RE DOING.
SO JUST AS AN EXAMPLE OF KIND
OF CULTURAL EXPECTATION THAT
DOESN'T REALLY HAVE NECESSARILY
MUCH TO DO WITH THE JOB WAS ONE
THAT RESONATED A LOT WITH ME.
SO YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT THIS
IS GOING TO DO THE LABOR
SUPPORT OF POLICY AND JUST
BECAUSE WE SIMPLY HAVE ALWAYS
DONE IT A CERTAIN KIND OF WAY
DOESN'T MEAN WE SHOULD CONTINUE
TO DO IT THAT WAY IN THE
FUTURE.
SO I'LL BE SUPPORTING THIS
COUNCIL.
>> MCCONNELL I JUST WANTED TO
THANK THE STATE STREET
DISTRICT, THE MAIN STREET AREA
ASSOCIATION AND COUNCIL MEMBER
GHAZI EDWYN WHO IN THE INTERIM
FROM WHEN THIS WAS ON A
PREVIOUS COUNCIL AGENDA TOOK
TIME TO MEET AND DISCUSS THIS
TO PROVIDE ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION TO HAVE A CHANCE TO
ANSWER QUESTIONS.
>> I KNOW THAT THERE IS SOME
TREPIDATION BY THE BUSINESS
COMMUNITY BUT I AGREE WITH MY
COLLEAGUE THAT THIS IS THIS IS
A NO BRAINER TO ME AS WELL AND
I APPRECIATE THAT THERE WILL BE
AN EDUCATION PROCESS THAT GOES
AROUND IN IS NECESSARY AND
RIGHT FOR US TO DO AS WE GET
BUSINESSES NOT ON BOARD WITH
THIS BUT IS ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT
THIS AS WE ARE AND AS
ENTHUSIASTIC AS WE HEARD FROM
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TONIGHT.
SO THAT WAS AN EXTRA STEP THAT
WENT I THINK A REALLY LONG WAY
TO GETTING THE BUSINESS
COMMUNITY FEELING LIKE THEY HAD
A VOICE AT THIS TABLE IN A WAY
THAT WAS REALLY RESPECTFUL AND
MEANINGFUL TO THEM.
SO I'M ALSO SUPPORTIVE AND I'M
GRATEFUL TO MY COLLEAGUES FOR
TAKING THE TIME TO DO THAT.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED IT IS APPROVED C TO AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE ZONING REZONING OF ONE
POINT SIXTY SIX ACRES FROM ANN
ARBOR TOWNSHIP DESIGNATION TO
DISTRICT TO R1 D SINGLE FAMILY
DWELLING DISTRICT THREE FOUR
SEVEN FOUR HURON RIVER DRIVE
REZONING MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER SONG
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C TO ON
FAVOR POSED IT'S PROVED C THREE
AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION
ONE ONE TWO ZERO A OF CHAPTER
NINE CITY SEAL AND FLAG
OF TITLE ONE OF THE CITY
CODE MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA SECOND BY COUNCILOR GOZI
HAD ONE DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C
THREE I AM.
THIS OF COURSE IS FOLLOWING UP
ON THE RESOLUTION OF OF LAST
LAST MEETING OR FAIRLY RECENT
VINTAGE IDENTIFYING A NEW CITY
FLAG.
WE ARE FORGING IT HERE IN
ORDINANCE.
I LOOK FORWARD TO YOU KNOW A
LITTLE BIT OF DISCUSSION
PERHAPS OR SOME SOME GUIDANCE
FROM FROM CITY AS TO WHAT
CONSTITUTES USE OF THE FLAG IN
A MANNER THAT IS CONSISTENT
WITH OUR ORDINANCE.
WE ALL KNOW THAT WE WANT TO
UNLEASH THE FLAG TO THE PUBLIC
TO ENABLE IT TO SERVE AS A
SYMBOL OF MUNICIPAL COMMUNITY
OF MUNICIPAL BELONGING AND TO
ENHANCE CIVIC PRIDE AND AND
MEMBERSHIP AT THE SAME TIME,
OF COURSE WE WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT THE USE OF THE FLAG DOES
NOT CREATE A FALSE FALSE
SUGGESTION OF AFFILIATION OR
SPONSORSHIP.
AND SO THAT THAT CONSISTENT
USAGE WILL BE USEFUL FOR US TO
ARTICULATE FURTHER DISCUSSION
ON POSED.
>> IT IS APPROVED SEE FOR AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION ONE
ONE SEVEN CODE VIOLATION
CITATIONS OF CHAPTER ONE
OF TITLE ONE OF SECTION EIGHT
FOUR FIVE EIGHT OF CHAPTER ONE
ZERO FOR ENERGY AND WATER
BENCHMARKING OF TITLE EIGHT
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
GARTSIDE ONE DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF CIFOR
ON FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED C0 ZERO RESOLUTION TO
PROVE APPROVAL OF ISSUANCE
OF NEW CLASS C QUOTE A LIQUOR
LICENSE IN THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR TO CELLO'S RESTAURANT AND
TOCCARA MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA SECOND BY COUNCILOR
WATSON DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C0
ALL IN FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED C0 DC ZERO SORRY
GOODIS D I'VE SKIPPED SO MANY
DIFFERENT THINGS.
>> YES I DID SKIP THE DEED THE
DS GOODNESS.
ALL RIGHT WELL MAKAU NO I
PULLED IT UP NO ONE STOPPED ME
AND WE PASSED IT.
THAT'S QUITE ALL RIGHT OUT
OF ORDER YOU CAN RETURN TO THE
BEST ONE AND WHEN YOU GET TO
THE C I WOULD REDO DC ZERO AND
SO WE SHALL THANK YOU DC ONE
RESOLUTION THANK YOU RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE THE THREE ZERO ZERO
THREE ONE TWO E YOU'RE ON
REDEVELOPMENT BROWNFIELD PLAN
MOVE MY COUNCIL MEMBER BEEN
TAKE MY CUSTOMER QUINNELL
DISCUSSION OF DC ONE COUNCILOR
QUINNELL SO I WANTED TO
REITERATE SOME OF WHAT WAS SAID
DURING PUBLIC COMMENT ABOUT
THIS PROJECT.
I DO SIT ON THE BROWNFIELD
AUTHORITY AND THE BOARD DISCUSS
THIS PROPOSED BROWNFIELD PLAN
BY DEVELOPER FIRST MARTIN THE
TEF THE TAX INCREMENTAL
FINANCING THAT WILL BE USED TO
REMEDIATE POLLUTION ON THE SITE
IS RESTRICTED TO ENVIRONMENTAL
ACTIVITIES ONLY AND IS
PROPORTIONALLY REIMBURSED WITH
LOCAL VILLAGES ONLY THE WAY
THAT THIS PROJECT CAME UP DID
NOT ALLOW TIMING.
>> THE TIMING WASN'T CORRECT
FOR IT TO ALLOW SUBMITTAL TO
THE ACT THREE DAYS ONE WORK
PLAN WHICH IS WHY THIS IS
COMING TO COUNCIL WITH
CONTINGENT APPROVAL BY THE
BROWNFIELD AUTHORITY THIS HAS
COME BEFORE THE BROWNFIELD
AUTHORITY BOTH IN JUNE AND IN
AUGUST AND IS CONTINGENT ON
CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL.
>> THIS IS FOR A SIX STORY
HOTEL RIGHT ACROSS THE STREET
FROM US AND A COUPLE OF THINGS
I JUST WANTED TO MAKE NOTE IS
THAT A IS A COMMONLY USED
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT TOOL.
>> THESE BROWNFIELD ABATEMENTS
ARE NOT EXCLUDED BY THIS BEING
IN THE DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY AREA WHICH WAS SOME
MISINFORMATION SPREAD ONLINE
REGARDING PROJECTS IN DENHA NOT
BEING AVAILABLE FOR BROWNFIELD
TAX CAPTURE.
THAT IS NOT TRUE.
THIS IS FUNDING TAX CAPTURE
MECHANISM THAT IS SPECIFIC TO
THIS.
IT ACTUALLY IS TO BE USED TO
EXPEDITE DEVELOPMENT
OF PROPERTIES WHERE
CONTAMINANTS AND POLLUTION IS
FOUND AND WHILE THE PUBLIC
COMMENTER WAS RIGHT THAT THIS
CITY COUNCIL COULD SAY NO TO
THIS BECAUSE IT DOESN'T ISN'T
THE IDEAL PROJECT IN TERMS
OF OUR GOALS AROUND THE
ENVIRONMENT, I DO WANT TO POINT
OUT THAT DESTINATION HARBOR
ORGANIZATION THAT PROMOTES
TOURISM AND BRINGS A LOT
OF MONEY INTO THE CITY BY WAY
OF TOURISM THOSE THE FUNDING
FOR DESTINATION IN OUR AND
SIMILAR CLUBS AROUND THE STATE
AND COUNTRY RELIES ON FUNDING
FROM TAX CAPTURED BY LOCAL HOST
HOTEL STAYS.
SO BY INCREASING THE AMOUNT
OF HOTEL AVAILABILITY AND
CAPACITY IN DOWNTOWN WE ARE
BRINGING TOURISTS DOWNTOWN
WHICH HAS A RIPPLE EFFECT
THROUGHOUT OUR BUSINESS
COMMUNITY.
SO THERE IS ABSOLUTELY ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT TO THIS BENEFIT AND
I THINK THAT WAS SOMETHING THAT
IS PROBABLY RELEVANT TO DEBATE
AND CONVERSATION TONIGHT AROUND
THE AGENDA ITEM COUNCIL MEMBER
ACKMANN, THANK YOU AND THANKS
FOR EXPLAINING SOME OF THAT
BACKGROUND COUNCIL MEMBER CORNO
TO ME BECAUSE OF THE TIMING
OF WHEN THIS IS COMING UP, IT
SEEMS PRETTY CLEAR THAT THIS IS
A WELL AT LEAST WHAT I READ
FROM THE STAFF REPORT IS IT
DOESN'T SEEM LIKE THIS PROJECT
IS AT THREAT OF NOT BEING
BUILT.
RATHER IT SEEMS THAT THE
COMMITTED TO IMPLEMENTING SOME
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENTS THAT
MIGHT NOT HAPPEN SHOULD THEY
HAVE TO SPEND THE MONEY
ELSEWHERE.
SO I'M HOPING THAT STAFF CAN
ANSWER A COUPLE OF QUESTIONS
RELATED TO THIS, MR. TONY
.
>> YES, MAYOR, IS THERE A STAFF
MEMBER PRETTY READY TO ENGAGE
MAYOR?
I THINK MR. DELACOUR IS ON THE
LINE.
>> OH, MR. DELACOURT SHOULD BE
THERE SUPER.
THANK YOU.
YEAH.
AGAIN, I SEE YOUR MICROPHONE,
AM I NOT?
>> YOU ARE AUDIBLE BUT NOT
VISIBLE.
>> YEAH, I DON'T UNDERSTAND AND
I'M NOT SURE WHY I'M HERE AND
AVAILABLE TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS YOU ALL MAY HAVE.
>> GREAT.
ALL RIGHT.
LET'S ROLL
CANCER
COUNTERARGUMENT.
YEP.
CAN YOU SPEAK TO THE TIMING
OF THIS COMING UP?
YOU KNOW KIND OF HOW STANDARD
IS IT FOR SOME KIND
OF BROWNFIELD'S CONTAMINANT TO
BE FOUND PARTWAY THROUGH A
PROJECT AND HOW THAT IMPACTS
THE AMOUNT THAT CAN BE ASKED
FOR?
>> THAT'S MY FIRST QUESTION.
>> IT BROUGHT ME IN COUNCIL
MEMBER BUT I BELIEVE IT BROUGHT
ME IN HALFWAY THROUGH YOUR
QUESTION.
>> SO IF YOU COULD CLARIFY OR
WE SAY THAT I'D BE GLAD TO
ANSWER NO PROBLEM.
>> HOPE THAT DOESN'T COUNT
AGAINST MY TIME.
I'LL BE I'LL BE COOL.
I'M HOPING THAT YOU CAN SPEAK
TO THE FACT THAT THIS AND I
HAVEN'T LOOKED AT A LOT
OF BROWNFIELD PLANS SO PARDON
ME IF THIS IS VERY FAMILIAR TO
YOU BUT CAN YOU JUST SPEAK TO
THE TIMING OF THIS BEING, YOU
KNOW, COMING UP KIND OF PARTWAY
THROUGH A PROJECT AND HOW IT
IMPACTS ON THE AMOUNT THAT CAN
BE ASKED FOR GOTAN FOR THE
REMEDIATION?
>> YEAH, TALK ABOUT A COUPLE
OF THINGS RELATED TO THE TIMING
IN FACT THAT YOU KNOW A LOT
OF THE CONVERSATION TONIGHT THE
DEVELOPER ACTUALLY APPROACHED
ME AND STAFF YOU AFTER THE
PROJECT HAD ALREADY BEEN
STARTED UNLIKE A OUT
OF PROJECTS FOR WHATEVER REASON
THE CONTAMINATION AND THE
REMEDIATION NECESSARY FOR
WASN'T WAS NOT DISCOVERED UNTIL
AFTER THE HOLE WAS BEING DUG
AND LATER IN THE PROCESS THAN
IS NORMALLY DESIRED BY US.
SO WHEN THE DEVELOPER
APPROACHED AND STARTED TALKING
TO US ABOUT THE ADDITIONAL COST
FOR THE PROJECT, WHAT ITEMS IN
THE PROJECT WERE DISCRETIONARY?
WHAT THINGS MAY BE ABLE TO BE
ELIMINATED OR VALUE ENGINEERED
TO OFFSET THE ADDITIONAL COST
OF THE PROPERTY?
TO BE QUITE HONEST IT WAS
REALLY ME STAFF AND
SPECIFICALLY ME WHO SUGGESTED
THAT EVEN THOUGH IT WAS LATE IN
THE PROCESS UNDERSTANDING THE
BROWNFIELD PROCESS AND THE
ABILITY FOR US TO CAPTURE LOCAL
MILLS TO PAY BACK SPECIFICALLY
ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION NOT
NON ENVIRONMENTAL BUT
ENVIRONMENTAL AND A AND THAT
WOULD WORK WITH THE LIMITED I
KNOW 704 FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS
IS NOT A SMALL AMOUNT OF CHANGE
BUT COMPARED TO MOST OF THE
BROWNFIELD PLANS WE DO IT WAS
RATHER SMALL IN SIZE AND QUICK
TO REPAY ITSELF AND NATHANS
HERE YOU CAN CORRECT ME WHEN I
WHEN I MAKE A MISTAKE BUT I
BELIEVE IT REPAYS ITSELF WITHIN
ONE OR TWO YEARS AND THEN THE
PROCEEDS FROM THE PROJECT GO
BACK TO THE LOCAL TAXING
JURISDICTIONS.
IT WAS ME WHO SUGGESTED THAT
THIS PROJECT FIT THE MOLD
SPECIFICALLY OF WHAT THE
BROWNFIELD LEGISLATION THAT 381
INTENDS TO DO AND THAT IS TO
CLEAN UP ENVIRONMENTAL
REMEDIATION AND TO PUT
BROWNFIELD SITES ON PAR WITH
GREENFIELD.
AND IT WAS MY SUGGESTION THAT
INSTEAD OF REMOVE ITEMS OR
VALUE ENGINEERING THE PROJECT
THAT THEY CONTINUE TO INCLUDE
ITEMS IN THE PROJECT THAT ARE
NOT CODIFIED OR REQUIRED BY
CODE BUT WERE THINGS THEY
OFFERED AT THE SUGGESTION
OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND
COUNCIL THAT WOULD BE DESIROUS
BY THE COMMUNITY.
SO IT WAS REALLY ME WHO
SUGGESTED THAT THEY PURSUE THIS
AVENUE AS OPPOSED TO LOOKING TO
REMOVE OR VALUE ENGINEER
ADDITIONAL ITEMS OUT OF THE
PROJECT.
WHAT THAT MEANS FROM A COST
STANDPOINT IS INSTEAD OF ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT OF THE
REMEDIATION BEING ABLE TO BE
REIMBURSED WE PRO-RATED VERSUS
OR WE PRORATED BASED ON THE
LOCAL TAX RATE ONLY.
SO IT GOES FROM ONE POINT
SOMETHING MILLION IF ALL OF THE
MILLS WOULD NORMALLY BE
REQUIRED DOWN TO ABOUT SEVEN
HUNDRED AND FORTY FIVE
THOUSAND.
AND AGAIN I'M GOING TO LOOK
NATHAN AS THE EXPERT BUT I
BELIEVE THAT'S ABOUT SIXTY
PERCENT OF WHAT WOULD NORMALLY
BE ELIGIBLE TO BE REIMBURSED
BECAUSE IT IS LATER IN THE
PROCESS BECAUSE IT DID NOT
START IN THE WORK ACTUALLY
STARTED ON THE SITE PRIOR TO
THE PLAN BEING APPROVED.
THIS IS THE ONLY WAY FOR US TO
ACHIEVE THE THE LOOKBACK
POSSIBLE TO REIMBURSE AS MUCH
OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIVITY
AS WE CAN.
SO I'VE SAID A LOT OF STOP
THERE AND IF THERE'S ANY
QUESTIONS ANY ADDITIONAL
QUESTIONS, I'D BE GLAD TO
CLARIFY FURTHER DISCUSSION
OF CATHERINE WATSON IF IF
COUNCIL DIDN'T APPROVE THE
BROWNFIELD TODAY WOULD AM I
CORRECT IN THINKING THE
REMEDIATION WOULD STILL HAPPEN
OR YEAH YEAH OK.
YEAH YEAH I AND I AND I DON'T
WHO DO NOT WANT TO MAKE IT
SOUND LIKE THE DEVELOPER AT ANY
POINT CAME TO STAFF AND
THREATENED TO TAKE THE
SUSTAINABILITY ALLIUMS OUT
OF THE PROJECT OR GET A THEY I
WOULD SUGGEST THAT IT IS
POSSIBLE THAT THEY WOULD LOOK
TO AGAIN VALUE ENGINEER LIKE A
LOT OF PROJECTS TO OTHER ITEMS
OUT OF THE PROJECT FOR
SOMETHING THAT IS EASILY
REIMBURSABLE AND FITS WITHIN
THE INTENTION OF THE BROWNFIELD
PROGRAM EVEN THOUGH IT DOESN'T
MEET OUR SPECIFIC CRITERIA FOR
TIMING FOR A PROJECT LIKE THIS
CONSERVATIVE I THINK THAT YOU
JUST INDIRECTLY ANSWERED A
QUESTION THAT COUNCIL MEMBER
ACKERMAN RAISED WE DIDN'T
ACTUALLY ASK WHICH WAS DID THE
DEVELOPMENT COMMIT TO MAKE
GREEN ENERGY AND SUSTAINABILITY
IMPROVEMENTS THAT WOULDN'T BE
POSSIBLE WITHOUT THE BROWNFIELD
MONEY AND I THINK YOU JUST
SPOKE TO THAT.
BUT IF YOU WANT TO ADD ANYTHING
TO THAT, THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
AND IS IT WORTH NOTING THAT IS
THIS THE FIRST BROWNFIELD PLAN
THAT WE'VE SEEN SINCE WE DON'T
HAVE A COUNCIL BROWNFIELD
COMMITTEE ANYMORE?
>> WELL, THAT'S A GOOD
QUESTION.
I WANT TO SAY YES COUNCIL
MEMBER, BUT MY MEMORY IS NOT
WHAT IT USED TO BE SO I'M NOT
GOING TO SWEAR.
OH, NATHAN SHAKING HIS HEAD
HE'S BETTER REMEMBERING THAN I
HAVE DONE ONE SINCE THE SINCE
THE COUNCIL BECAME THE PRIMARY
ADVISOR.
WELL, WE'RE MEETING
NOW OUR
VILLAGE ANN ARBOR I THINK WITH
ONE THAT'S FINE.
>> THANK YOU.
SO WE'VE DONE ONE UH COUNCILOR
ONE OF THE REALLY ANSWERED THE
OTHER QUESTION THAT COUNCIL
MEMBER ASKED THOUGH WHICH I
WOULD APPRECIATE LIKE WHAT ARE
AH WHAT SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENTS
ARE THEY COMMITTED TO IF WE
ACCEPT THIS BROWNFIELD PLAN
THIS TIES THEM INTO THE HIGHER
EFFICIENCY ELECTRIC HEATING AND
THE UNITS AND THE SOLAR
ASSOCIATED THE PROBLEM AND I
BELIEVE MR. MARTIN WAS THERE
TOO IF HE WANTS OUT ANY
DETAILS.
>> WELL, THAT'S ABSOLUTELY
RIGHT.
I THINK THAT THE TIMING THING
IS THERE'S A LITTLE BIT MORE
OF A BACK STORY THERE IF YOU
WANT A COUPLE OF MINUTES OF IT
BECAUSE I THINK IT'S KIND
OF INTERESTING.
SO DOES THAT WOULD THAT BE
HELPFUL?
SO WE BOUGHT THE PROPERTY IN
NINETEEN NINETY FIVE AND AT
THAT POINT IN TIME WE DID A
PHASE ONE ENVIRONMENTALLY
SPEAKING IN NINETEEN NINETY
FIVE WHAT THEY CARED ABOUT WERE
PETROCHEMICALS AND SO THAT SITE
IS ACTUALLY OR IS THAT WAY IS
ACTUALLY TWO PARCELS.
SO THERE WAS A PARCEL THAT WAS
A GAS STATION AND SO WHEN WE
BOUGHT THE PROPERTY IN NINETEEN
NINETY FIVE THEN THERE WAS
ANOTHER BUILDING THERE OVER
TIME WE DIDN'T REALLY HAVE THE
HISTORY ON IT AND ENVIRONMENTAL
FOLKS WEREN'T SUPER CURIOUS
ABOUT THAT AT THE TIME WE DID
EVERYTHING OR EVERYTHING WAS
DONE AT THE GAS STATION TO GET
IT TO THE PLACE WHERE WE
THOUGHT THAT THE SITE WAS AND A
GOOD SPOT TO GO FORWARD AND SO
WE CAME WE STARTED THIS PROJECT
COVID COVERED IT HOSPITALITY NO
ONE WAS THING UNTIL WE PUT THE
BRAKES ON IT AT THE SAME POINT
TIME WE HAD HAD A COMMITMENT
WITH MARIOTTE THAT WE WERE
GOING TO BUILD THIS PROJECT
EVENTUALLY AND SO POST COVID
THINGS ARE TO GET A LITTLE BIT
BETTER.
WE HAD SOME KIND OF CLARITY
AROUND HOSPITALITY.
WE DECIDED TO GO FOR THE
PROJECT AGAIN AND STARTED DOING
ALL THE SUBMISSIONS.
WE CAME TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION HEY HERE.
THE THINGS THAT WE WANT TO
INCORPORATE INTO THE PROJECT,
THE SUSTAINABILITY ASPECTS
OF IT AND IN BETWEEN GOING THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND PUTTING
A SHOVEL IN THE GROUND WE WENT
AND FOUND A LENDER TO HELP US
FINANCE THE PROJECT AND LEONARD
SAID WE'D LIKE TO DO TO DO A
NEW PHASE ONE.
THE ONE FROM NINETEEN NINETY
FIVE IS WORTH A WHOLE LOT BUT
IT TURNS OUT THAT THE SECOND AT
ONE POINT IN TIME HAD A DRY
CLEANER ON IT AND FAST FORWARD
A TWENTY TWENTY FOUR PEOPLE ARE
PRETTY CONCERNED ABOUT DRY
CLEANERS AND THE CHEMICALS THEY
HAD SO THAT'S WHERE AT THE TIME
WE KIND OF GOT ALL A WASH AT
THE SAME POINT IN TIME PUTTING
BRAKES ON THE PROJECT THEN
WOULDN'T HAVE WORKED JUST
BECAUSE WE HAD A CONTRACT WITH
AMERICA THAT WE HAD TO GET
STARTED BY A CERTAIN POINT IN
TIME.
SO THAT'S WHY IT'S KIND OF JUST
YOU.
DEREK DESCRIBED IT A WEIRD
TIMING THING WHERE WE
DISCOVERED THIS AND YOU KNOW, I
REACHED OUT TO HIM AND SAID HEY
,HERE'S WHAT'S GOING ON.
YOU HAVE ANY IDEAS AND YOU KNOW
WE'VE GOT THIS KIND
OF UNEXPECTED AND YOU KNOW,
LARGE EXPENSE IN OUR IN OUR LAP
AND SAID HEY, I THINK THERE'S A
POSSIBILITY HERE AND LET'S
EXPLORE IT.
AND SO I APPRECIATE THAT
STAFF'S BEEN, YOU KNOW, SUPER
HELPFUL FROM THAT PERSPECTIVE.
BUT YEAH, THE THINGS THAT WE
ARE LOOKING TO TRY AND MAINTAIN
ARE THE HIGHEST EFFICIENCY IN
UNIT ELECTRIC ALL ELECTRIC
UNITS THAT WE CAN IN THE SOLAR
ON THE ROOF.
AND SO, YOU KNOW, THE FALLBACK
WOULD BE EITHER LESS EFFICIENT
UNITS OR KEN'S MY GOODBODY NOW
BUT MOVING TO GAS IN THAT
PROJECT IS SOMETHING THAT COULD
STILL BE DONE.
IT IS UNDER WAY CAN BUT IT'S
STILL SOMETHING THAT COULD BE
DONE.
AND YOU KNOW, AT THE END OF THE
DAY THERE'S FINANCIAL DELTA AND
SO OPERATING COSTS FOR GAS ARE
CHEAPER AND ELECTRIC.
THIS IS THE WAY IT IS.
SO YOU KNOW, OUR IDEAL WOULD BE
TO MAINTAIN OUR PRODUCT AS WE
CURRENTLY HAVE IT AND THIS
WOULD BE AN ELEGANT WAY TO HELP
US COVER THE COST OF THE
UNEXPECTED.
YOU KNOW, TRULY JUST IT'S
ENVIRONMENTAL.
>> WE'RE NOT ASKING FOR
ANYTHING ELSE.
SO THAT'S KIND OF A LITTLE BIT
MORE THE NUANCE ON THE TIMING
AND HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNTERPART COLONEL, I JUST
WANT TO POINT OUT FOR CONTEXT
THAT THE THAT THE BROWNFIELD
ABATEMENT THAT IS BEING
REQUESTED IS AROUND SEVEN
HUNDRED AND FIFTY ISH THOUSAND
AND THIS IS A SIXTEEN MILLION
DOLLAR INVESTMENT.
>> SO IT'S THEY THINK WE NEED
TO UNDERSCORE THAT THIS IS A
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENT THAT
WILL IMPROVE THE TAX BASE
DOWNTOWN IN THE ABATEMENT.
THE INCENTIVE WILL BE FOR FIVE
YEARS A PERIOD OF FIVE YEARS
AND THAT'S PRETTY TYPICAL.
AND AGAIN JUST TO
MR MARTIN
SAID THIS IS REALLY IT IS GREAT
CUT THAT'S NOT THE RIGHT WORD.
IT'S RESTRICTED TO THIS
ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION WORK
ONLY UNLIKE OTHER INCENTIVES
WHICH MAY BE APPLICABLE FOR
PROJECTS AND DEVELOPMENTS
DOWNTOWN COUNCILOR BRIGGS,
THANKS.
THANKS FOR ALL THE ANSWERS TO
QUESTIONS AND I APPRECIATE OUR
PUBLIC COMMENTARY COMING OUT
AND RECENT SOME OF THE
QUESTIONS ON THIS.
I UNDERSTAND THE DESIRE TO TRY
TO GET THE MOST THAT WE CAN WIN
LEVERAGING OUR TAX DOLLARS FOR
A PROJECT.
I THINK THAT WE ARE I THINK
THAT THIS INVESTMENT IS IN LINE
WITH WHAT BROWNFIELD DOLLARS
WERE INTENDED TO DO.
WE'RE CLEANING WE'RE USING THEM
TO TO MAKE THE SITE CLEANER AND
THEY'RE HELPING TO SUPPORT A
CLEANER, MORE ENVIRONMENTALLY
FRIENDLY BUILDING THAN WE WOULD
GET YET OTHERWISE.
AND SO WHILE THERE'S ALWAYS
DESIRE TO TO FOR MORE
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENTS, I
THINK WE'RE SEEING AND SEEN
INVESTMENT IN THIS BUILDING
THAT IS GREATER THAN WHAT'S
REQUIRED BY CODE AND I'M
SUPPORTIVE OF MOVING THIS FOR
FURTHER DISCUSSION IF EVER
POSED IT IS APPROVED DOWN TO
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING SUMMARY
PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCE TWO
FOUR ZERO TWO FOUR TWO ZERO AND
ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION FIVE
ONE EIGHT FIVE TWO TWO FIVE TO
NINE FIVE THREE SEVEN AT
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
EVALYN CODE OF TITLE FIVE THE
CODE SEVEN ARBER MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER MINICHIELLO OR
DOES THAT ALSO GET POSTPONED?
>> WELL NEEDS TO GET IT NEEDS
TO GET MOVED AND SECONDED
BEFORE WE CAN POSTPONE IT MOVE
BY IT'S MOVED BY THIS SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON COUNCIL
MEMBER WE'RE DENHA THANK YOU
MAYOR.
SIMILARLY I WOULD MOVE TO
POSTPONE THIS ITEM TO OUR NEXT
MEETING SECOND BY CATHY WATSON
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED IT IS
POSTPONED AND THE RESOLUTION IS
SO NICE WE DID IT TWICE.
>> DSC OUR RESOLUTION TO REVISE
PREVIOUS APPROVAL OF ISSUANCE
OF NEW CLASS C NO DC ZERO THE
ONE WE HAVE DC ZERO.
>> YEAH AREN'T I READING IT.
I THINK YOU SAID ONE.
OH I MAY HAVE ACTUALLY SAID LET
US NOT QUIBBLE THE RESOLUTION
THAT WE ARE NOW CURRENTLY GOING
TO ENGAGE IS RESOLUTION TO
REVISE WHATEVER NAME RESOLUTION
TO REVISE THE PREVIOUS APPROVAL
OF ISSUANCE OF NEW CLASS C
QUOTE A LIQUOR LICENSE IN THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR TO CHILI'S
RESTAURANT AND TUCKER REMOVE MY
COUNCILOR CORNELL SECOND MY
COUNCIL MEMBER BRINGS
DISCUSSION AFTER WHAT COMES A
DENHA SPOKE AT THE TOP OF THE
MEETING ABOUT THIS.
BUT THIS IS CLARIFYING THERE
WAS INITIALLY ONE ADDRESS ON
THE STATE APPLICATION.
THIS IS UPDATING IT TO REFLECT
THE CURRENT ADDRESS OF THE
OF THOUSAND UPDATES.
THE APPLICATION ALLOWS THEM TO
KEEP MOVING FORWARD.
>> THE PROCESS WITH THE STATE
IS EXCELLENT FOR DISCUSSION OR
FAVOR OR OPPOSE IT IS APPROVED
DC ONE RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT
OF ORDINANCE TO ADD A NEW
SECTION NINE THAT ONE FIVE FIVE
ONE TO CHAPTER ONE ONE TWO
NONDISCRIMINATION RIGHT TO SET
MOVE BY MARKAZI HAD BEEN
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER FOR
DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC
ONE COUNCILOR ZERO.
>> I THANK YOU MAYOR.
YOU KNOW AS I STATED EARLIER
THIS RESOLUTION WAS WRITTEN IN
COLLABORATION WITH THE
COMMISSION ON DISABILITY ISSUES
THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION AS
WELL AS MY FELLOW CO-SPONSORS
DUE TO THE DESIRE TO ENSURE
THAT VALUES UNDERLYING THIS
INITIATIVE ARE EFFECTIVELY AND
CLEARLY COMMUNICATED UPON
FURTHER CONSULTATION WITH
STAKEHOLDERS, THERE'S A STRONG
DESIRE TO STRENGTHEN THE
RESOLUTION BY ADDING AN
ADDITIONAL RESOLVED CLAUSE.
>> SO I WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A
MOTION TO PROPOSE AN AMENDMENT
.
>> CLARK BEAUDRY, COULD YOU
PLEASE CIRCULATE THE AMENDMENT
?
OH IT MAY BE ATTACHED ALREADY
TO I DON'T NEED IT IS LET ME
SEE IT IS IS IT.
>> YEAH CARRY ON.
OK SO THE FINAL RESOLVE CLAUSE
WOULD RESOLVE THE INNER CITY
COUNCIL DIRECTS THE UNIVERSITY
ADMINISTER TO ENGAGE WITH THE
MICHIGAN STATE LEGISLATURE TO
ADVOCATE FOR STATEWIDE
LEGISLATION ENSURING ALL
WORKERS THE RIGHT TO SET
SECONDED BY REGINA FRIENDLY THE
BODY FROM THE BODY FURTHER
DISCUSSION THE MOTION AS
AMENDED COUNTERMARCH.
THANK YOU.
I AM EXCITED TO SHARE THAT
SINCE OUR LAST COUNCILOR
MEETING RAPID DYLAN WIGLER HAS
INTRODUCED STATEWIDE
LEGISLATION ADVOCATING FOR THE
RIGHT TO SIT AND I SINCERELY
HOPE THAT IT WILL RECEIVE THE
SUPPORT IT DESERVES AND
ULTIMATELY PASS.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
ON FAVOR POSED.
>> IT IS APPROVED DC TO A
RESOLUTION FOR COUNTY MILEAGE
REBATE USE MOVE BY COUNCILOR
HARRISON SECONDED COUNCILOR
SONG DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC TO
COUNCILOR HARRISON.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
A STRONG SOCIAL SAFETY NET
WORKS HAND IN HAND WITH OUR
CRISIS RESPONSE TO ENSURE BOTH
MENTAL WELLBEING AND PUBLIC
SAFETY.
>> YOU CAN'T YOU SIMPLY CAN'T
HAVE A COMPREHENSIVE
SUSTAINABLE ON OUR CRISIS
RESPONSE PROGRAM WITHOUT
MAINTAINING THE FOUNDATION
OF SERVICES AT THE NECESSARY
FUNDING LEVELS.
THIS IS WHY IT'S CRUCIAL THAT
WE SUPPORT THIS BALANCE TO
EDUCATION TODAY I'D LIKE TO
THANK MAYOR TAYLOR COUNCIL
MEMBERS SONG COUNCIL MEMBER,
COUNCIL MEMBER FOR DENHA AND
COUNCIL MEMBER FOR SPONSORING
THE RESOLUTION DIRECTING THE
CITY ADMINISTRATORS TO DEVELOP
AN UNARMED PUBLIC SAFETY
RESPONSE PROGRAM BACK IN APRIL
OF TWENTY TWENTY ONE AND FOR
THEIR TIRELESS EFFORTS OVER THE
YEARS AND RECOGNIZING THIS
CRITICAL LINK AND PUSHING FOR
SOLUTIONS, I UNDERSTAND THE
COMMUNITY'S FRUSTRATION AND
DISAPPOINTMENT WHICH IS EXACTLY
WHY WE ARE SEEKING A
SUSTAINABLE FUNDING SOURCE THAT
WILL ENABLE US TO MEET THESE
CHALLENGES LONG TERM PROVIDING
THE FINANCIAL STABILITY WE NEED
TO SUPPORT BOTH ON CRISIS
RESPONSE AND THE SUPPORTIVE
SERVICES THAT WILL ASSIST WITH
MAKING UNARMED CRISIS RESPONSE
MORE EFFECTIVE.
>> THIS RESOLUTION IS ABOUT
MAKING SURE WE HAVE A SAFETY
THAT THAT SUPPORTS MENTAL
HEALTH, PUBLIC SAFETY AND LONG
TERM COMMUNITY STABILITY IN A
WAY THAT IS SUSTAINABLE FOR
YEARS TO COME.
>> THANK YOU CARL SONG I REALLY
APPRECIATE HOW COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON FRAMES IT AS A AS A
SAFETY NET.
IF WE TRAVELED BACK IN TIME A
LITTLE BIT DURING THE PANDEMIC
AND AND REMEMBER HOW DIFFICULT
IT WAS FOR OUR SOCIAL SERVICE
AGENCIES TO RECEIVE NOT ONLY
ADEQUATE BUT TIMELY FUNDING
ACROSS VARIOUS ENTITIES LOCALLY
STATE YOU KNOW, FINALLY THE
FEDS GOT IT.
>> IT WAS ABLE TO SHEPHERD SOME
FUNDING BUT THE WHEELS
OF BUREAUCRACY ARE SO SLOW
UNTIL WE CAN HAVE ALL THESE
CONVERSATIONS ON WHERE WE WANT
FUNDING TO LAND.
BUT THE REALITY IS THAT A LOT
OF FUNDING IS RESTRICTED.
A LOT OF FUNDING AGAIN IS SLOW
AND THEN WE'RE NOT NECESSARILY
AS RESPONSIVE AS WE'D LIKE TO
IMAGINE OURSELVES TO BE.
SO I LIKE I WOULD HOPE TO THINK
THAT THIS EFFORT IS ACTUALLY
TIMELY AND RESPONSIVE GIVEN THE
LESSONS THAT WE LEARNED DURING
THE PANDEMIC.
OUR FUNDING IS GONE.
IT'S DRIED UP AND WE HAVE NOT
RETURNED TO FAMILY THERAPY HAS
NOT RETURNED TO PRE PANDEMIC
LEVELS SO I I APPRECIATE THIS
EFFORT BECAUSE IT'S IT'S
FUNDING THAT WILL COME ANNUALLY
AND IT'S FUNDING THAT'S TIED
WITH A VARIETY OF SERVICES THAT
ARE MOST WELL KNOWN FOR
COMMUNITY MEMBERS NEED RIGHT
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES, HOUSING
SUBSTANCE ABUSE THESE ARE NOT
CHEAP SERVICES AND THESE ARE
THIS IS FUNDING THAT I'M SO
PROUD OF IN OUR WORK FOR
HELPING TO PROVIDE AGAIN, I'D
LOVE TO SAY THAT WE'RE THE ONLY
MUNICIPALITY THAT HAS FUNDING
TO, YOU KNOW, THE WORK THAT WE
SEE AT THE COUNTY AND NOW TO
HAVE THIS COUNTY LEVEL FUNDING
BE COORDINATED IN THIS MATTER.
>> I HOPE THE TEST FOR US FOR
THE FUTURE IS THAT THAT WE MAKE
THIS AN ONGOING COMMITMENT.
SO THANK YOU FOR EVERYONE FOR
ORGANIZING AROUND THIS AND
SPEAKING TO IT.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER IHR THANK YOU
AND THANK YOU FOR ALL THE
CO-SPONSORS FOR BRINGING THIS
FORWARD.
I'D LIKE TO BE ADDED THIS ONE.
THIS REALLY IS THE CULMINATION
OF A LONG A LOT OF WORK OVER
THE YEARS STARTING AT LEAST FOR
MY PART BACK IN TWENTY SIXTEEN
WHEN I WAS SERVING ON THE
COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
AND I WAS PART OF A SMALL
WORKING GROUP THAT INITIALLY
IMAGINED THIS MENTAL HEALTH AND
PUBLIC SAFETY MESSAGE AND I
REMEMBER AT THE TIME SITTING
DOWN AND TALKING TO SHERIFF
CLAYTON ABOUT THE WAYS IN WHICH
HE WAS REIMAGINING PUBLIC
SAFETY AND AND AND THE NEED TO
PROVIDE MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES
ALONG WITH THAT I I RECALL AT
THE TIME HOW IMPORTANT IT WAS
IN THE DISCUSSIONS THAT CITY
COUNCIL IN ANN ARBOR PUBLICLY
SAY HOW THEY PLAN TO USE THE
REBATE
AND THAT WAS REALLY
IMPORTANT TO COMMUNICATE TO
VOTERS BEFORE ASKING THEM TO
APPROVE THE MILEAGE OF COURSE
THAT WAS DONE AND IT WAS
ALLOCATED IN THE PREVIOUS FORTY
FORTY TWENTY SPLIT AND CERTAIN
COUNCIL MEMBERS OVER THE YEARS
TRIED TO CHANGE IT UP.
BUT MAYOR TAYLOR HELD FIRM
SOMETIMES HAVING TO ISSUE THE
VETO.
APPRECIATE THAT.
AND HERE WE ARE NOW WITH
CLIMATE ACTION MILLAGE AND
WE'RE ABLE TO USE FORTY PERCENT
OF THAT FOR A NEW PURPOSE AND
I'M REALLY HAPPY THAT WE ARE
NOW USING A COMING FULL CIRCLE
TO BUT I STARTED TALKING ABOUT
WHICH WHICH WAS THE PUBLIC
SAFETY AND REIMAGINING HOW WE
DO PUBLIC SAFETY HERE AND WE'RE
FINDING THAT IT ISN'T AS EASY
AS WE THOUGHT IT WOULD BE TO
SET UP AN UNARMED CRISIS
RESPONSE PROGRAM.
AND THERE ARE LEGAL ISSUES THAT
WE NEED TO DEAL WITH AND THERE
ARE ORGANIZATIONAL ISSUES BUT
THAT WORK CONTINUES IN EARNEST.
I'M GRATEFUL FOR OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR FOR HIS
COMMITMENT TO IT FOR VISITING
LATER THIS MONTH A PROGRAM THAT
HE THINKS WE MIGHT LEARN FROM
AND I'M GLAD TO BE SUPPORTING
THIS TONIGHT TO PROVIDE AND
ONGOING SOURCE OF REVENUE FOR
THIS WORK THAT WE CAN COUNT ON
GOING FORWARD.
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA THANK YOU,
MAYOR TAYLOR.
I WANT TO ECHO MY THANKS FOR
THE ORIGINAL SPONSORS OF THIS
AND WE'D LIKE TO BE ADDED AS
WELL.
I THINK WE'VE HEARD NOW FOR A
COUPLE OF MEETINGS FROM OUR
PUBLIC COMMENTERS ABOUT THE
SPECIFICALLY THE IMPORTANCE
OF THE 40 PERCENT THAT IS USED
TO FUND SUPPORT OF SERVICES FOR
RESIDENTS HERE IN ANN ARBOR AND
AND I WANT TO JUST UPLIFT HOW
IMPORTANT THAT IS.
WE'VE TALKED A LOT AT THIS
TABLE ABOUT THE IMPORTANCE
OF FINDING ONGOING FUNDS FOR
OUR CRISIS RESPONSE SO THAT WE
CAN GET THAT PROGRAM OFF THE
GROUND.
WE HEAR FROM THE SERVICE
PROVIDERS HOW CRITICALLY
IMPORTANT THIS MONEY IS FOR THE
WORK THAT THEY DO IN THE
COMMUNITY WHICH IS OFTEN IN
ITSELF PREVENTATIVE WORK FOR
FOR OUR COMMUNITY AS WELL.
BUT NONE OF IT IS POSSIBLE
UNLESS THIS ACTUALLY PASSES.
AND SO WHILE WE ARE WE ARE
DEDICATING HOW WE WOULD SPEND
THESE FUNDS IF THIS MILLAGE
REBATE IS PROVIDED TO THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR.
ALL OF THIS IS ONLY POSSIBLE IF
VOTERS CONTINUE TO PLACE THEIR
TRUST IN IN THE COUNTY AND IN
THE CITY TO DO THIS WORK.
AND SO WHEN I FILLED MY
ABSENTEE BALLOT I MADE SURE
THAT I VOTED YES ON AN
WASHTENAW COUNTY PROPOSAL FOR I
WOULD URGE ALL OF OUR RESIDENTS
TO DO SO AS WELL.
THIS IS REALLY, REALLY
IMPORTANT FUNDING FOR REALLY,
REALLY IMPORTANT WORK IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
SO NOT ONLY ARE WE DOING THE
WORK HERE TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
SPEND THIS MONEY APPROPRIATELY
AND ON OUR COMMUNITY VALUES WE
HAVE TO MAKE SURE THAT THIS
PASSES.
>> SO PLEASE VOTE YES ON
PROPOSAL FOR COUNCIL MEMBER
BRINGS THANKS.
YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER FOR DENHA JUST
SAID WHAT I WAS HOPING AND
WHICH IS THAT YOU KNOW WE ALL
NEED TO VOTE YES FOR THIS.
THIS IS IMPORTANT FOR FOR
RESIDENTS ALL ACROSS THE COUNTY
INCLUDING OF COURSE OUR OWN
RESIDENTS.
I ALSO WANTED TO JUST THINK THE
FOLKS WHO WERE IN THE AUDIENCE
TODAY WHO HELD OUT TO THE VERY
END THANK YOU FOR COMING IN AND
FOR THE WORK THAT YOU'RE DOING
ON BEHALF OF YOUR AGENCIES.
IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT FOR OUR
COMMUNITY.
THANKS FOR SHARING THAT TONIGHT
AND THE FOLKS EMAILED US AND
SAID SHARED OUR SUPPORT.
APPRECIATE THAT AS WELL.
WE'VE JUST HAVE SUCH GREAT
PEOPLE DOING THIS WORK USUALLY
BEHIND THE SCENES AND SO THANK
YOU.
>> AND AGAIN, YOU KNOW, I THINK
THAT OBVIOUSLY IT'S QUITE
IMPORTANT THAT WE WE LET VOTERS
KNOW WHAT WE'RE GOING TO DO
WITH THIS WITH OUR REBATE AND
EXPRESSING WHAT OUR UNMET NEEDS
ARE TODAY AND COMMUNICATING HOW
WE'RE GOING TO USE THOSE FUNDS.
SO I'M EXCITED TO BE ABLE IF
THIS IF THIS PASSES WHICH TO TO
ADVANCE AND CONTINUE TO ADVANCE
SOME OF OUR MOST IMPORTANT
UNMET NEEDS IN OUR COMMUNITY.
>> SO THANK YOU AND ALSO PLEASE
ADD MUSIC SPONSOR COUNCILOR
MURKOWSKI HAD ONE.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
YOU KNOW, I ALSO WANT TO THANK
CO-SPONSORS AND ALL THE MEMBERS
OF THE AUDIENCE WHO WAITED OUT
TO THE END, PEOPLE WHO CALLED
IN WHAT I AM EXCITED ABOUT THIS
REALLY EXCITED ABOUT THIS FOR
US THAT WE'RE STILL ALLOCATING
RESOURCES TO UNARM CRISIS
RESPONSE BUT WE'RE ALSO
FOLLOWING THE HOUSING FIRST
APPROACH WHICH SHOWS THAT IF
YOU ADDRESS HOUSING FIRST YOU
CAN REDUCE INCIDENCES
OF INTERACTIONS BETWEEN PEOPLE
WHO ARE HOUSING INSECURE IN THE
POLICE.
IF YOU NEW HOUSING FIRST YOU
CAN REDUCE THE PREVALENCE
OF MENTAL ILLNESS AND SUBSTANCE
ABUSE.
SO I WHOLEHEARTEDLY SUPPORT
THIS.
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO BE ADDED
AS A CO-SPONSOR AND I HOPE THAT
OUR COMMUNITY MEMBERS COULD ALL
VOTE YES ON PROPOSAL FOR THANK
YOU COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON SO
THIS ALLOCATION OF THE REBATE
REPRESENTS THE MONEY THAT THE
CITY THE MONEY THAT THE COUNTY
REBATES TO THE CITY BECAUSE WE
PROVIDE OUR OWN POLICE FORCE
AND OUR OWN POLICE PATROL IF
YOU KNOW IF IF THIS HAD BEEN AT
THE TOWNSHIP LEVEL THAT WOULD
BE TO EXPAND SERVICES THERE.
SO THE 37 PERCENT OF THE
MILLAGE THAT YOU YOU PAY TO THE
COMMUNITY MENTAL DEPARTMENT
STILL STILL GOES THERE.
THE THIRTY EIGHT PERCENT GOES
TO THE SHERIFF'S OFFICE TO
PROVIDE ADDITIONAL SERVICES,
SOME OF WHICH ARE PROVIDED
THROUGH AVALON AS THEY REMINDED
US DURING THOSE DISCUSSIONS
THAT MONEY STILL GOES THERE.
SO THIS IS ONLY ABOUT THREE
MILLION OF A MILLAGE THAT IS
MUCH BIGGER BUT THERE ARE SO
FEW SOURCES FOR SERVICE FOR FOR
RECURRING FUNDS FOR SERVICES
AND YEAH, AS WE KNOW THE
HOUSING FIRST MODEL MEANS YOU
HAVE TO BE PROVIDING SERVICES
ON THOSE SITES BECAUSE
OTHERWISE PEOPLE YOU KNOW
OTHERWISE IT BECOMES VERY
DIFFICULT TO LIVE TO LIVE ON
THESE SITES.
AND SO ONE SIGN OF HOW
DIFFICULT IT WAS TO FIND
SERVICES IS WE AT THE URBAN
COUNTY WHICH I SERVE ON THROUGH
THROUGH AS A DESIGNEE FROM
COUNCIL WE USE THE HOME R COVID
FUNDING WHICH WE HAD HOPED TO
BE USING ALL FOR HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT.
A PORTION OF THAT HAD TO GO TO
SERVICES JUST TO PLUG GAPS.
AND SO THE FACT THAT THIS IS A
RECURRING SOURCE OF REVENUE
FUNDED THROUGH A MILLAGE MEANS
IT IS SO IMPORTANT AND IT WILL
NEVER FEEL LIKE ENOUGH AND I AM
VERY GRATEFUL TO THE MEMBERS
OF THE COMMUNITY INCLUDING THE
ENTIRE CONTINUUM OF CARE
BECAUSE IT TAKES SO MUCH
COORDINATION FROM OUR
NON-PROFITS AH OUR CITY HOUSING
COMMISSION, OUR COUNTY PARTNERS
AT OCZ TO TO GET THIS NETWORK
OF SERVICES PROVIDED AND I KNOW
EVERY YEAR WITH INFLATION THE
COSTS AND THE DIFFICULTIES
INCREASE.
ONE MORE NOTE ON THE UNAM
RESPONSE PORTION IS WE KNOW
FROM THE DURHAM MODEL I THINK
THEY SPEND ABOUT FIVE MILLION A
YEAR ON OUR RESPONSE.
SO THIS IS KIND OF EARMARKING
ONE POINT TWO MILLION BUT IT'LL
TAKE A LOT OF WORK TO TO MAKE A
FULL UNARMED RESPONSE PROGRAM
AND I THINK IT'S GOOD TO START
WITH AN AMOUNT EARMARKED HERE
IN BRITISH.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO BE ADDED AS
A CO-SPONSOR AND EVERYONE HAS
SPOKEN SO ELOQUENTLY THAT I
WILL NOT KEEP US ANY LATER BY
ADDING ANY WORDS THAT WILL PALE
IN COMPARISON.
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
>> WELL, I DON'T KNOW IF I'LL
ADD BUT I'LL ADD I'LL SAY
MERELY THIS THAT IS YOU KNOW I
THINK OVER THE YEARS HAS BEEN A
FAIR BIT OF RHETORICAL BLOOD
SPILLED ABOUT THE COMMUNITY
MENTAL HEALTH MILLAGE AND THE
FORTY THE PRIOR FORTY FORTY
TWENTY RESOLUTION AND I AM GLAD
THAT THE MILLAGE IS PRESENTLY
ON THE BALLOT AND I DO INDEED
HOPE IT PASSES AND IN PLEASED
THAT COUNCIL IS AGAIN MAKING A
COMMITMENT TO THE VOTERS AS TO
HOW WE INTEND TO SPEND THE
REBATE MONEY IN THE EVENT THAT
WE ARE ENTRUSTED WITH IT AS WE
DID BACK IN TWENTY SEVENTEEN WE
REFLECTED ON COMMUNITY NEEDS
THAT WERE NOT WHICH DID NOT
HAVE DEDICATED FUNDING WHICH
DID NOT HAVE ADEQUATE FUNDING
BACK IN 2012 OF COURSE WE
LOOKED TO PEDESTRIAN SAFETY,
CLIMATE ACTION AND AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
NOW IN TWENTY TWENTY FOUR WE
CONTINUE TO OBSERVE A GAP IN
PEDESTRIAN SAFETY FUNDING AND
SO WE ARE LOOKING TO CONTINUE
WITH THAT.
WE ALSO SEE THE NEED WITH
RESPECT TO OUR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING STOCK.
NO LONGER DO WE HAVE A
SUBSTANTIAL CAPITAL AND NEED AS
A RESULT OF THE THE WISDOM
OF STAFF AND THE GENEROSITY
OF VOTERS WITH RESPECT TO THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING MILLAGE.
AND SO NOW WE TURN TO ANOTHER
UNMET NEED AND THAT IS HUMAN
SERVICES AT HOUSING COMMISSION
AT AFFORDABLE HOUSING SITES
CRUCIAL FOR THE SUCCESS OF THE
ORGANIZATION AND CRUCIAL MORE
IMPORTANTLY FOR THE SUCCESS
OF THEIR RESIDENTS.
AND THEN FINALLY WE ARE GOING
TO BE INCUBATING A PROGRAM THAT
THAT HAS BEEN A LONG STANDING
COMMUNITY ASPIRATION AND
UNARMED RESPONSE PROGRAM.
AS HAS BEEN INDICATED, ONE
POINT TWO MILLION DOLLARS IS
LIKELY INADEQUATE FOR THE FINAL
PURPOSE.
BUT IT IS ALSO A NECESSARY
CONDITION FOR GETTING THE
PROJECT MOVING FORWARD AND IN
THAT REGARD I'M DELIGHTED THAT
WE'RE DOING IT.
LOOK FORWARD TO TO OUR WORK IN
THIS REGARD AND I KNOW THAT THE
RESIDENTS ARE AS WELL FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBERS ON
THIS IS ACTUALLY A REALLY GOOD
EXAMPLE OF WHY A PROPOSAL ON
THE BALLOT IS REALLY
PROBLEMATIC.
PROPERTY CLAIMS THAT WE HAVE
FUNDING AVAILABLE FOR FOR FOR
CANDIDATE
TO RUN FOR OFFICE
AMOUNTING TO ABOUT 400000
DOLLARS A YEAR.
>> AND HERE WE ARE TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT FUNDING THAT WE
COULD HAVE USED OVER THE PAST
COUPLE OF YEARS ACTUALLY IN
SERVICE TO OUR COMMUNITY
MEMBERS IN NEED.
AND THIS IS THE WORK THAT WE
DO.
THIS IS WHY WE DEDICATE
FUNDING.
EVERY SINGLE DOLLAR HAS A
PURPOSE AND HAS AN END.
IT DOESN'T ALWAYS COME
RELIABLY, YOU KNOW, AND THANK
GOODNESS FOR THE VOTERS WHO DO
COMMIT TO SUPPORTING THIS KIND
OF FUNDING THAT DOES COME
RELIABLY IF I THINK YOU'LL
REMEMBER HOW WE HAD TO DO A
BUDGET AMENDMENT ERM I THINK A
YEAR OR SO AGO WHEN WE HAD A
NUMBER OF HOMELESS FAMILIES WHO
WERE HOTELING AND THEY NEEDED
THEY NEEDED HOUSING, THEY
NEEDED THEY WERE UNABLE TO
CONTINUE TO STAY IN THE HOTELS
IF IT WASN'T FOR OUR EMERGENCY
FUNDING JEWISH FAMILY SERVICES
IS NOW CURRENTLY HOUSING TEN
FAMILIES IN HOTELS FROM THE
AIRPORT RIGHT TO THE HOTEL.
THE HOUSING COSTS FOR OUR
REFUGEES AND IMMIGRANTS THROUGH
THAT AGENCY ALONE IS A HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLARS A MONTH.
>> SO WHEN WE CONSIDER HOW WE
FUND OUR BEST EFFORTS TO TAKE
CARE OF OUR COMMUNITY MEMBERS,
I WOULD HOPE THAT IT COMES AS A
PRIORITY ABOVE THIS PROPOSAL
WHICH WOULD BE TO FUND
CAMPAIGNS.
WE CAMPAIGN TO TAKE CARE
OF OTHERS.
THAT'S WHAT WE CAMPAIGNED FOR
NOT TO TAKE PUBLIC FUNDING FOR
OUR OWN PERSONAL INTERESTS.
SO I APPRECIATE I HOPE WE CAN
MAKE THAT CONNECTION TO FURTHER
DISCUSSION FAVOR OPPOSED.
IT IS APPROVED DC THREE
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING SUMMARY
PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCE TWO
FOUR ONE NINE AN ORDINANCE TO
AMEND SECTION FIVE ONE SIX
THREE AND FIVE ONE SEVEN POINT
SEVEN OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
UNIFIED VELTMAN CODE OF TITLE
FIVE OF THE CODE OF THIS EVENT
AABA MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL SECOND BY COUNCILOR
PRIOR DISCUSSION PLEASE DC
THREE ON FAVOR POST IT'S
APPROVED DC FOR A RESOLUTION TO
RESTATE AND RENAME THE DOWNTOWN
AREA CITIZEN'S ADVISORY COUNCIL
TO THE DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
AREA RESIDENT CONSULTANCY
COUNCIL MOVE BY COUNCILOR
GRENELLE SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER IA DISCUSSION PLEASE DC
FOR COUNCIL MEMBER CARNEL.
>> IT IS SO THRILLING TO BE THE
PERSON WHO GETS TO TALK ABOUT
TAX INCREMENT FINANCING HERE
TWICE IN ONE NIGHT JUST TRYING
TO SPICE THIS UP FOR EVERYONE A
LITTLE BUT THIS ACTUALLY IS AN
EXISTING ADVISORY COUNCIL TO
THE DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY WHICH IS REQUIRED BY
STATE STATUTE TO HAVE A GROUP
OF PEOPLE WHO RESIDE IN THE DDA
AREA SERVE AS A CONSULTATIVE
GROUP TO ITS WORK WHICH WOULD
THEN ADVISE COUNCIL.
THE D.A. WOULD ADVISE COUNCIL
WHAT THIS CHANGES FROM WHAT WAS
PREVIOUSLY IN LINE AGAIN WITH
STATE STATUTE IS TO BRING THIS
IN LINE THAT WOULD MAKE THIS
GROUP, THIS CONSULTATIVE GROUP
INCLUSIVE OF ALL RESIDENTS
WHICH IS PRETTY VAGUE BECAUSE
WE HAVE A LOT OF FOLKS WHO LIVE
HERE AND BY NATURE OF NOT
OWNING PROPERTY WOULD NOT
NECESSARILY QUALIFY AS A
CITIZEN.
SO THAT ALLOWS MORE DIVERSITY
ON THIS GROUP.
>> IT IS A RENAMING AS WE SAID
AND IT ALLOWS THE DDA TO HAVE A
LITTLE MORE FLEXIBILITY IN
TERMS OF WHO IT IS ABLE TO
BRING ON TO THIS ADVISORY
COUNCIL BY AGAIN NOT MAKING IT
JUST CITIZENS.
THE REQUIREMENTS WOULD BE THAT
THE THOSE ELIGIBLE TO SERVE ON
THIS COMMITTEE ARE RESIDENTS
OF THE D.A. AND ARE AT LEAST 18
YEARS OF AGE.
THEY WOULD BE APPOINTED TO
THREE YEAR TERMS AND STAGGERED
MUCH LIKE COUNCIL.
I AM APPRECIATIVE OF DEEDS
COMMITMENT TO GETTING AS MANY
PEOPLE INVOLVED IN THIS AS
POSSIBLE AND HAVING A DIVERSITY
OF VOICES AT THE TABLE AND I
HOPE THAT MY COLLEAGUES WILL
WILL SUPPORT FURTHER DISCUSSION
ON FAVOR POSED.
>> IT IS APPROVED.
WE HAVE THE PLEASURE OF A
CLOSED SESSION TODAY.
NO THANK YOU MAYOR.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE SUPPORT
OF COMMUNICATIONS WITHOUT
PETITIONS OR REFERRALS MOVE A
MOTION PLEASE TO PROVE THE
CLERK'S SUPPORT MOVE BY
COUNCILOR GHAZI EDWYN SECONDED
BY COUNCILOR MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POST IS
APPROVED.
>> ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM OUR CITY ATTORNEY?
NO THANK YOU MA'AM.
IN THE ABSENCE OF PUBLIC
COMMENT, OVERFLOW MAY HAVE A
MOTION TO ADJOURN.
PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCILOR
CORDELL SAY MY COUNCILOR.
>> OUR DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED.
>> WE'RE ADJOURNED